for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the commission's transport package 'europe on the move', which will lead europe towards clean, competitive and connected mobility, is commendable. however, due to an over-emphasis on road transport, the proposals partially miss the opportunity that is currently available to initiate and support the necessary transformation of the transport sector. in the proposal for a new regulation on hired vehicles, we would have liked to see more emphasis on reinforced checks and charges to promote fairer tax competition, more emphasis on the necessary green transition in the transport sector, from road to rail, and better support for training for truck drivers. we welcome the commission's proposals in general, but we would like to make it tougher against, for example, letterbox companies and with fairer tax rules.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking mrs mlinar and all those involved for a very good report. it covers most of the aspects which are directly crucial for the future of this parliament to be fully gender-balanced, for this house to be gender-balanced, but above all for the policies and decisions we take to be fully gender-balanced. it is therefore very important that the studies which parliament commissions, the panel discussions which parliament organises and the material which parliament draws up are fully equal, so that we members of parliament can take decisions as well-founded as possible. it is therefore very important that the whole of parliament is involved in gender mainstreaming. we also need to take strong action against sexual harassment, and we need to do it now. sexual harassment is a crime and an extreme form of gender discrimination and should not be allowed to occur in this house or anywhere else for that matter. if there is one thing we have learned from the me too campaign, it is that we must take this issue very seriously. it must be mandatory for all members of the european parliament to undergo training against sexual harassment, and that is the least we can ask. i myself attended the training on 7 december and was the only mep present. this is really embarrassing. i think that 33 people out of 751 members went through this. all members must take their responsibility and that is very important. we must make training compulsory. parliament must also have a fully independent working group to examine the situation of sexual harassment in parliament. this is a task which parliament cannot do alone, we need outside help and expertise. i would also add that i would urge all member states and political parties to have lists drawn up, because that is very important for equality. in sweden we have had rotated lists since 1994 and it has gone very well.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mrs mlinar, who has done a very good job with this report. we can and we will take the lead in the fight for a europe of equals. today we are calling for an action plan for gender equality here in the european parliament, for all the work here. gender equality is about giving people the opportunity to realise themselves and the inner potential that everyone possesses. it is intimately linked to the good of society, which must, without doubt, be based on equality. discrimination, harassment and violence in close relationships come at a high cost to the individual and to our societies. it takes active citizenship, good education, solidarity, but also the ability to see these power structures and have the courage to change them. men, of course, are also harmed by inequality. we have everything to gain by breaking down destructive ideals of masculinity. our elected parliaments should, of course, set an example. the big green win in this report is that we are calling for an action plan for all the work here in the european parliament.
madam president, it has been three long years during which bosnia and herzegovina has not managed to adopt the rules of procedure for the work between our parliament and theirs – three long years. during these three years we have been listening to a lot of stories about how we should adopt the ethnic rules of procedure. our problem, madam president, is that we see that the country doesn’t function with these rules. we don’t want to adopt them here, because neither we will function. if a country wants to join the european union, they will have to adopt the rules that exist here. we have lost three years on this. not a single meeting has been held, and i certainly hope that with the new political figures, the country will come up with a solution and overcome this blockade and start the real work, because many more important things and difficult things are awaiting us on the way to joining the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, a year and a half ago this parliament approved with a two-thirds majority a pragmatic reform of the dublin regulation – after very difficult work, i must say. we managed to join five groups in a text that actually points out the need for a truly european compromise. we voted for a proposal that would ensure solidarity between member states; where every member state would play a positive part in correcting the failures of the current system. we improved the commission proposal by ensuring immediate registration and security screenings of applicants, reasonable balance, easing the burden on front-line member states and a fair sharing of responsibilities for all. our text would incentivise applicants to work with the authorities instead of driving them to abscond and make use of smugglers. what i want to see is an orderly asylum system in europe where those in need of protection who reach our shores would receive exactly that, and those that do not comply with the criteria would be sent back. we did our homework in this house. what did the member states do? they dug themselves deeper and deeper into the trenches. all of them seem to worry mostly about themselves and no one is ready to find a compromise. now i quote commissioner avramopoulos: ‘open your eyes’. we are all time low on migration at this moment. and still there are a few that manage to reach our shores and we need to take full responsibility for them and we should do it jointly together. the result that we see from member states now is that people rescued at sea have to wait for weeks in full despair and desperation as member states haggle over their future. with every failure of the member states the bar seems to be set lower and lower. believe me, judgment day will come and generations to come will ask all of us, why did you allow this to happen? why? no one can give a full answer to that but we know that we managed to put systems together on everything except for human beings. the day has come for us to deliver. (scattered applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is a lot of talk in this house about reforms, for example a reformed dublin regulation. it would be based on the forced distribution of migrants coming to the eu. you could have seen this from the beginning, that it would fail. you also talk a lot about solidarity, but you do not realise that real solidarity cannot come about through coercion. it must be voluntary, and the eu can never order a member state to show solidarity with a given quota of asylum seekers. so today we have a deep divide within the eu that seems to be only getting deeper. you never understood the seriousness of this and tried to find solutions to the migration in the vicinity. instead of finding practical, sustainable solutions, it has been more important for you to play nice and be politically correct. real solidarity is not reformed!
mr president, i say to the prime minister: i think it is fantastic that romania now has the presidency of the european union. that’s a sign of how europe has developed, but you need to make it fantastic. and i would like to say that you and your government need to fight corruption, as we require from any other government. pardoning corrupt politicians because you say that the prisons are overcrowded is not acceptable in the european union. fighting those who are fighting corruption is not acceptable. decriminalising corruption or giving amnesty to corruption for safeguarding your own is not acceptable. i heard that udo bullmann, the leader of the socialist group, defended you. i must say that was a disgrace for the socialist group. it devalued him. and you need to take on the responsibility of safeguarding romania, because we believe it is a fantastic thing that you are having the presidency. don’t make a mess of it, you have a responsibility, take it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think my colleague has missed the point, because i was talking about the problems of corruption in romania – as demonstrated by the venice commission, transparency international and many others – and the pardoning of corrupt politicians, which was just referred to by the romanian foreign minister on the bbc. you’re talking about someone congratulating the president of your country. well, i must say i’m not very upset about that. you and the socialists here should be just as strict towards romania as we shall be towards hungary and poland, because misuse of power is always misuse of power. you will fight it and we shall fight it. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank mr torvalds for his annual report on the banking union. the report provides us with an excellent account of how the banking union has helped foster a single market and contributed to creating a level playing field and financial stability. much has been achieved since its inception in terms of the overhaul of the regulatory and supervisory framework for financial institutions. but the work is not complete yet. completion of the banking union is one of the commission’s priorities, and we very much welcome the fact that the report also underlines a continued commitment towards this goal. since last year’s debate, i am pleased to say that we have made some tangible progress. firstly, we have an agreement on the so—called banking package. gunnar hökmark and peter simon negotiated this on behalf of the parliament. the banking package will strengthen the prudential framework and increase banks’ ability to absorb losses in times of crisis without the need for taxpayers’ money. the technical work aimed at its finalisation is ongoing, and we look forward to early completion so that parliament may still have the final word before the recess. secondly, significant progress has been made in the implementation of the action plan adopted by the council in july 2017 to tackle non—performing loans (npls), including through the adoption by the commission of a number of proposals and communications. under roberto gualtieri and esther de lange’s rapporteurship, you have reached a very quick agreement with the council on the prudential backstop to prevent the accumulation of non—performing loans in the future. recent data has shown that in 2018, bank capital and liquidity positions continued to improve, and bank leverage decreased while loss absorption capacity improved. at the same time, npls on bank balance sheets have continued to decline and mrel buffers are being built up. the commission is encouraged to see that npl ratios have fallen in nearly all member states, facilitated by determined actions by banks and policymakers. but at the same time, the different levels of npls among member states must be further addressed and the npl action plan should be fully implemented. thirdly, a number of money laundering scandals involving european banks surfaced in 2018, and the commission came forward with a legislative proposal, as well as an accompanying communication, on strengthening the union’s framework for prudential and anti-money laundering supervision. our proposals are part of the wider package of measures that will strengthen the three european supervisory authorities and their anti—money laundering tools. i welcome the position which parliament has just adopted on the basis of report by pervenche berès and othmar karas. i count on your full support to conclude negotiations on the legislative proposal before the end of this legislature. bank exposure to sovereigns is another area where the commission shares parliament’s view that this is a problem with significant implications. in 2018, the commission also presented a proposal for a regulatory framework for sovereign bond—backed securities, with the aim of further reducing the link between banks and their respective sovereigns. regarding think tanks, the commission fully agrees with the need to ensure a level playing field between market participants, while supporting the uptake of innovative technologies in the financial sector. this has been reflected in our communication on fintech, which took the form of an action plan and covered a number of initiatives to strengthen, among other things, cyber resilience. but, as i mentioned, despite all the steps forward, we are not yet there. more needs to be done on the common backstop for a single resolution fund and a european deposit insurance scheme (edis). i very much welcome that the report recognises the importance of continued work on these proposals. as regards the common backstop, we are making progress. the agreement, reached in december 2013 at the euro summit, must now be swiftly implemented into esm treaty change, hopefully by the middle of this year. going forward, the european stability mechanism (esm), as a backstop provider, should be integrated into the union framework. this will enhance the democratic scrutiny of its activities. we are unfortunately less advanced on the establishment of edis, which is the essential third pillar of the banking union, so i urge you to finalise the report under esther de lange’s rapporteurship before the elections to show parliament’s support for this project. i also urge you to look at the banking union as an initiative that benefits all europeans. we have achieved a lot since the crisis broke out, with a real positive impact on businesses and households. at the same time, we will be held accountable for the risks entailed by an unfinished banking union. so let us use the remaining time in this political cycle effectively and make tangible progress towards completing the banking union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur and the commissioner. today when we are celebrating 20 years of the euro it is important to see how much things have changed recently. financial markets are about analysing risks, taking risks and distributing risks, and by the different steps and cornerstones of the banking union, we have today a better opportunity to analyse risks. that is one of the advantages of the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd), but also the establishment of supervisory authorities. we have provided a more secure framework in which to take risks; but there will always be crises. the question is how are we to deal with them, and how capable are we of getting out of them? the establishment of both a backstop and better legislation, hopefully, coming out on the non-performing loans will be a part of that, and the brrd as such also clarifies that all those who invest in a bank are taking a risk. and then we come to distributing risk, because the legislation we now have in place with capital requirements and a brrd establishes a very good precondition for the economy of the european union to face new upcoming crises and come out of them in better shape than we have previously been able to do. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commission. it is true that we still have a lot more to do, but let’s not underestimate how much we have achieved.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, our main goal in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) was to ensure that the esf+ becomes a tool to protect, develop and empower people. we wanted to ensure that future projects will be as inclusive and non-discriminatory as possible, that they will enable everybody in the eu to have better life prospects, and that, through this fund, we can stop maintaining systems of discrimination and exclusion and show that we take very seriously the values we set jointly in our treaties. we wanted, with the help of this fund, to achieve the transformation of our society into a sustainable society, something to which we committed ourselves by signing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. let me finish by expressing my gratitude to the rapporteur, ms lope fontagné, and also to brando benifei for their excellent cooperation during the shadow rapporteurs’ meetings.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, allow me to thank the rapporteur, co-rapporteurs and the commission for their good work on an important file. this file is the eu’s main financial instrument to invest in people, and is key in strengthening social cohesion, improving social fairness and increasing competitiveness across europe. we have debated over months and agreed to outline the goals of this file together with the recommendations for country analysis provided by the european semester. i am happy that we managed to put together a higher focus on the social economy, skills forecasting, digital skills, early childhood education and care. we managed as well to put earmarks for youth employment and to try to achieve some flexibility for the next period. crises will happen in the next period as well – like in this one – and it is important to have flexibility in order to cope with them successfully. but what we mainly managed to do is to support the long-term integration of migrants into countries across europe. these people are here whether you like it or not, whatever your proposal is for the solution for this problem, the country has to have the capacity and money in order to do the necessary work for the integration of these people into european society. and i am very proud that we succeeded in doing that. we stressed the need to provide stronger support for single parents, use funds more effectively than today, and to replace access to regular education. i think this file will not achieve miracles, like any other file, but i think that it will contribute to seeing a better and stronger europe in the next mandate.
madam president, first of all, regarding our ukip colleagues: as far as i understand, they don’t have a single seat in westminster, not one of them has been elected by the british people to westminster to deal with the future of the united kingdom. (applause)i think there is a point in that. but also, to mr farage and all the others, i would say this: you should be grateful to the european union because without the european union you wouldn’t have any parliamentary representation anywhere. (applause)secondly, regarding our british friends and those who are dealing with these issues in westminster. if they want prolongation, if they want time for reflection, if they want to return to the european union, let us tell them: ‘you are very welcome.’
mr president, i say to the prime minister: i share your concerns about the anti-eu rhetoric from the extreme right and the need to recover the legitimacy of the european institutions. this parliament has been voting across political and national boundaries, constantly regularly for a single seat of the european parliament. we want to be able to decide when and where to meet. chancellor angela merkel and sebastian kurz showed leadership last year and took a clear public position in favour of one location for the european parliament. are you, as pro-european, willing to take a stand, to put it on the agenda of the council, to talk to the people of europe and of spain during the election campaign about that and to engage in a constructive dialogue – a pro-european, pro-democracy dialogue – or are you going to ignore it and risk letting a symbol of peace, a reconciliation in europe which is so dear to us all, to become a symbol of waste?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the entire european economy, especially small and medium-sized companies, is negatively affected by late payments. the eu has taken some action against this – we have this directive and liquidity flow in businesses has increased – but we still have a way to go. according to the figures provided by the commission, more than half of member states, and more than half of member states’ companies, are still not paying and respecting the 30—day limit imposed by the law. even worse, many of these small companies are not asking for compensation because they are afraid of becoming the enemy of somebody to whom they owe money. our report puts forward measures that will improve this. we are encouraging member states to introduce even stricter payment terms. we are calling for the introduction of mandatory information – as was talked about just five seconds ago – on payment behaviour, such as databases and registers for both the public and private sectors. we are urging member states to set the national and regional free and confidential mediation services so that these businesses can go to somebody else and ask them to fight their cause instead of them. to finish, we are advising member states to take all necessary steps in order to ensure that the public authorities pay their suppliers in due time, because this is happening sometimes for economic reasons and sometimes for political reasons as well. by doing this, member states will increase the liquidity flow in businesses and help to fulfil their obligations, and we will manage to make the business climate in europe better than it is today.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadows, the other rapporteurs, all the organisations i met, the political officials, the assistants and the secretariat for the good cooperation. it is important work that we have done together and i am glad that it has led to a broad consensus in the committee. we are living in a difficult time in europe, where respect for our own principles and rules is in flux. we have governments that legislate or otherwise act against freedom of speech, freedom of the press, minority rights. governments that think democracy is just voting at a certain interval. but a democracy which does not respect fundamental rights or the rule of law cannot be called a full democracy, and a society with a rule of law is characterised by independent courts and the respect of their decisions. equality before the law shall be guaranteed; individuals shall not be subject to arbitrariness. the other day, the popular mayor of gdansk, poland, paweł adamowicz, was assassinated. according to the perpetrator, the attack was a revenge attack on the mayor's former party. but the thing is, the mayor has been threatened before, he's reported the threats, but the department has decided to drop the case. the mayor of gdansk was known for his welcoming attitude towards refugees and for his support for civil society organisations. in just one year, three journalists who have exposed widespread corruption have been murdered in eu countries bulgaria, slovakia, malta. in hungary, prime minister orbán has been accused of restricting free speech, undermining the independence of the judiciary, corruption, curtailing academic freedom in the country and eroding the human rights of minorities. poland has tabled 13 draft laws which the commission believes risk leading to political control of the judiciary. the draft law gives the polish minister of justice the power to appoint and dismiss judges without any criteria. the list of examples is unfortunately long, and that is why we need a strong programme on rights and values. in april 2018, parliament proposed the creation of a support programme targeted at civil society in the eu, just as we support mr organisations outside the eu. and so we welcome the commission's proposal, but we cannot accept that a completely new area, namely rights and values, should be backed up by existing programmes and, moreover, with a lower budget when the situation is that existing programmes are already underfunded. that is why we are calling for a substantial increase in the budget and for rights and values to be a separate programme, to stand on their own. we are directing more of our support to civil society and making it easier for smaller grassroots organisations to apply. the aim is to protect and promote democracy and the rule of law, equality and gender equality, rights, non-discrimination and to strengthen gender mainstreaming, gender mainstreaming, raising citizens' awareness of the union, promoting freedom of expression, diversity, civic engagement and combating violence and violence against women. prevention is the first priority, and that's what this program is all about. it is addressed to all member states, civil society, municipalities, regions and other institutions. but we need both carrots and whips to deal with the problems we are facing, and that is why we also propose that there should be a possibility for the commission to step in and transfer other eu funds in the country concerned to the programme in certain specific cases when a procedure is opened against the country in question, and that a percentage of the aid should be set aside to be used when we see a rapid and serious deterioration in the respect of our common values by a member state. membership of the eu is a commitment. article 2 of the treaty provides: the union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values shall be common to the member states in a society characterised by diversity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and the principle of equality between women and men. that's the basis of the new program.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have spoken on this matter, both those who agree that this is an important programme and those who do not. i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation we have had throughout the time we have been preparing this programme. we have received very good technical assistance to find solutions to the problems we have seen. i am a little concerned when i first hear - which is a very positive thing - that the commissioner is saying: "yes, it takes a lot of money to do this", but then he ends by saying: with less, we can do more. it is important to us that there is actually a budget for everyone, for the whole programme. on the one hand, for the existing programmes - which we also want to raise; we will not be able to accept the reduction of the existing programmes, to begin with - and on the other hand, with a lot of money for the new pillar, the one that deals specifically with rights and values, more linked to article 2. if we try to get everything under the same program, under the same pillar, we're not going to get the impact that we hope to get with this program. this is extremely important; it is a strong signal from us that we need both a lot of money and the new pillar separately, not wrapped up in the others. when it comes to money, you also talked about whether you could take it from maybe other parts or something in the social fund and something elsewhere. when it comes to issues like this - rights and values, or social issues - it is often very difficult to add this money, for member states to agree on resources. as regards the european defence fund, there has been no problem in raising the thirteen billion euro. that's a substantial amount that will be a burden on the taxpayers. but if we are not prepared to actually invest in what is also part of europe's own security, our internal security, i think that is very strange. we need this money, these funds for the programs, the existing programs, and for the new pillar. that is my very clear message to the commissioner, and i hope that we will be able to have good discussions. we are about to begin the trilogue meetings and there are some things which i think we will have no difficulty agreeing on. for example, in terms of making it easier for organisations to apply for funding, etc. there shouldn't be any problem. then we have some bigger issues to solve, but i hope that in good discussion we will be able to do that.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start with the comment that it is not for the commission to comment in detail on the internal procedures of the council. the commission has however always been committed to enhancing the transparency of the legislative process in general, which is a shared responsibility. the commission came to office with a commitment to enhance transparency. for example, commissioners, their cabinets and directors-general only meet with interest representatives who are in the transparency register. we have proposed to extend this principle the parliament and council and we still hope that the three institutions will all agree on this in order to make the transparency register mandatory for lobbyists. we are also publishing information on these meetings and on commissioners’ mission expenses. we have adopted new rules on commission expert groups with stronger transparency requirements and we have provided unprecedented levels of access to information on ongoing trade negotiations and also during the brexit negotiations. based on the commission’s proposal, this parliament and the council agreed with us on new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making which includes a joint commitment to enhance the transparency of legislative procedures, including as appropriate trilateral negotiations and to improve communication to the public. as your report notes, work is continuing between the services of the three institutions in developing the joint legislative portal, which we together committed to set up. it will be a user-friendly way for non-specialists to access information about ongoing legislative proceedings. a lot of information is already available if you know where to look but this is not always easy to find for non-experts. this portal should change that. if either the parliament or the council wish to publish additional information compared to what is presently made public, this would be a logical place to do so.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is about the third urgency resolution we have had on human rights abuses in azerbaijan during this mandate. it is really time for the government of azerbaijan to take our demands seriously. i demand the immediate and unconditional release of mehman huseynov and all other human rights defenders like lawyers, youth activists, political opponents, anti-corruption activists, independent journalists and bloggers in azerbaijan. these people have been arrested and are being tortured and imprisoned for exercising their freedom of expression and for criticising their government. that is not a crime. to the azeri officials, i would like to say that it is a right. some of these people are serving prison sentences for ten years just because they have investigated, or protested against, corruption in the government. the eu cannot stay silent while the media and free speech is being repressed in azerbaijan. we cannot accept the random arrest, harassment, torture and ill treatment of lgbti people, human rights defenders and political prisoners. if these demands are not met, the eu should take measures such as sanctions against the responsible azeri officials. the european commission and financial bodies should suspend all financing for azerbaijan state structures, enterprises and joint ventures.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was going to divide my speech into three parts. the first: peaceful protest must be allowed. it is natural and highly understandable that protests spread when governments drastically raise the price of basic foodstuffs and when the economic situation of the country deteriorates because of bad governance. in this case, the protests have spread from the countryside to the capital, khartoum. it must also be allowed to protest for president omar al-bashir, who has been in power for 29 years, to release a successor. international human rights organizations working in the country report 45 deaths so far. these are people who protested and were killed by police. the second issue is the security services' methods. it is completely unacceptable that such excessive force, against people protesting and against political opponents, is used by the sudanese security service niss. the niss mandate and methods must of course be in line with international standards, and this is not the case today. international standards for arrest should of course also be followed by the niss. for example, the niss is reported to have used live ammunition against unarmed people and torture is reported to have occurred in the country's prisons. it can never be accepted, not in any country. thirdly, the electoral calendar should be respected. according to the country's constitution, the incumbent president cannot run in the 2020 presidential election. but like so many other countries, the president is now trying to change the constitution so that he can still run in the 2020 election, and to help him, he has a group of legal experts close to him. twenty-two political parties in opposition to the incumbent president have demanded that power be taken over by a transitional government and that a date for democratic elections be announced immediately. since i have time to spare, i shall also raise a fourth question. this resolution is based on current and unacceptable events in sudan, but if we look up and think a little more about the situation in sudan, it is impossible for me as a green to not also see how the climate impact and its consequences have had a devastating impact on development since a few decades ago. as the conditions for farming deteriorate and as people are forced to flee their fields, tensions and thus conflicts increase, and sudan is a clear example of this.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like that the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 59(4).
madam president, the idea of differentiated integration is nothing new, we already have it. the area of banking union is not the same as schengen, it is not the same as eu, but now after all these crises we’ve been surviving, some are proposing that we should have a differentiated integration. some countries should integrate more and be allowed to remain outside of that cooperation. as somebody who cares about the eu despite its obvious big problems, i would warn against that idea because first being a member of the european union is to learn how to make compromise. of course you’re not satisfied every time, but this gives us the strength to act together against the problems that we have. it is to respect the fundamental values that we in principle that we have in this union and it is learning to solve the global problems together because without having all these countries we will never be able to cope with these global problems.
mr president, i rise in defence of rule 115, that parliament shall ensure that its activities are conducted with the utmost transparency. i am very surprised to learn that mr weber’s epp is taking the unprecedented step of imposing secrecy on the vote on lobby transparent tomorrow. in a democracy, politicians do not make laws in secret; citizens have a right to know how their representatives vote. forcing the whole of parliament to vote in secrecy on a political issue is not only ridiculous, it also undermines citizens’ confidence in the european parliament. why is the epp afraid to let voters know how their politician vote? so i urge you, mr weber: do the right thing and prevent your group from this blatant misuse of the rules in imposing secrecy on this transparency vote. do the right thing, if not, shame on you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in hungary has not improved. on the contrary, we see orbán and his party increasing the pressure on dissidents, on the media, on ngos, on academics and on those who stand up for refugee solidarity. however, we are also seeing growing opposition to the fidesz government's policies in hungary, and that is good. you have a lot of people supporting you both in our countries in europe and here in the european parliament. in an attempt to push back that support, fidesz is now choosing to brand me and other colleagues here in the european parliament as enemies, just as they have done with activists and opponents in hungary. but sorry to say, orbán and his lackeys here, we will not back down, we will not give in! we demand respect for human rights and the rule of law. we don't want your racist project. we will continue to stand up here together for freedom of the media, for refugee rights, for women's rights. and yes: this will be one of the most important issues in the election campaign! that's what elections are for. we will stand here, we will stand for human rights, the rule of law and democracy. so, yes, we're going to make this a ballot question because nothing could be more important.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner malmström, please! the eu-us trade relationship is of great importance. they're very important. we're very important to each other. nevertheless, we are now in an exceptional situation with the threat of a trade war. there's a lot at stake here. we're both gonna lose if this gets any worse. it could affect a lot of people. that is why i am in favour of negotiations with the united states and i welcome the efforts to find a viable way forward. the commission has certainly been clear that the steel tariffs must be removed and that we do not accept car tariffs. but it must be equally clear to trump. it is therefore important that we in the european parliament now send a clear message that the steel tariffs and the threats of car tariffs must end. finally, i would urge the commission to keep us up to date on developments in this important matter. clearness and transparency are needed to ensure that the negotiations with the us - even if limited - do not create more anxiety and unnecessary doubt.
rapporteur. – mr president, i probably won’t use all my time. first of all, i’m very thankful to the colleagues who have been working very swiftly to get this regulation through. it sets new standards and simplifies the administrative procedures connected to the running of the .eu domain name. in line with the objectives of the digital single market strategy, this regulation will do its part in further strengthening the eu as a digital market by providing a digital eu platform for companies and cities, for example, and especially encourage eu citizens, regardless of their country of residence, to obtain a .eu domain name. with this regulation we ensure that we can keep up with the rapid evaluation of the top—level domain name market and the dynamics of the digital landscape that require a future—proof and flexible regulatory environment. the existence of a specific domain name for the eu is very important for the eu online identity. the .eu domain name provides an opportunity for institutions, companies and citizens to have the possibility to access a .eu tld. they will therefore be easily identified as part of the eu community, sharing the same set of values and standards. in parliament we accepted the structure as proposed by the commission but wanted to provide for additional safeguards, such as for the respect of users’ privacy and security, consumer protection and human rights. i am especially glad that we could strengthen the text on safeguarding human rights and the rule of law. parliament also wanted to have better control on the establishment of the criteria and the procedure for the designation of the registry by using delegated acts. i am glad that during the negotiations we were able to secure this. the commission proposed to delete the limitation that the registry can only be a ‘not for profit’ organisation, and parliament endorsed this. however, this was a strong and important point, pushed by the member states. what we could secure is that the commission should do a specific review on this point and if needed propose changes. i’m also glad that we could manage to push for action to secure eu agencies, such as euipo, playing a bigger part in preventing cyber—squatting and simplifying administrative procedures. once again, this is a regulation where the ep has made a difference and secured important points and it would not have been possible if not everyone involved – staff and members – had been so committed to the task. all in all, parliament was really united across party lines. there were basically, in the one and only trilogue, three outstanding points, where parliament was pleased to gain several victories.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr fredrick federley, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the political agreement reached by the co—legislators on 5 december and endorsed by the committee on industry, research and energy on 14 january. the commission fully supports the agreement. this concludes what has been a very fast—track process since the adoption of the commission proposal for a .eu regulation in april 2018. the political agreement of the co—legislators strengthens the regulation on a number of important points. in particular it clarifies that the legal framework for the .eu top—level domain respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights, in particular the protection of personal data, the freedom of expression and information and the protection of consumers. it provides for additional safeguards against the abusive registration of .eu domain names, including an assessment of how the registry may operate as the european union intellectual property office in the future. it applies swiftly, six months after the entry into force of the new regulation, a new eligibility criterion, which will allow all eu citizens to register a .eu domain regardless of where they live, be it inside or outside the eu. today the .eu domain is available to 500 million people and to businesses across the 28 countries of the european union as well as in iceland, liechtenstein and norway. our common goal is to establish a future—proof framework, which allows the .eu to continue to grow and provide best—in—class services to eu citizens and businesses. i believe that the compromise reached between the co—legislators fully meets this objective.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a rapid and efficient negotiation process and now the final decision. this is a small but important piece of the puzzle in developing the digital single market. the .eu domain name can contribute to strengthening the online identity of the union and simplify and increase cross-border trade. however, the credibility and trustworthiness of the .eu domain can also be abused by those who seek to undermine the legitimacy of our democratic system through cyber—attacks, disinformation and domain squatting. this is happening all the time and at all levels. that’s why it’s important that we look upon our digital infrastructure as a critical infrastructure, which needs to be resilient towards outside pressure and attacks. the new rules are clear that when a domain is registered or used in bad faith, it should be blocked. those who are responsible for the .eu domain should work with all relevant actors to ensure that this is done swiftly and efficiently. it is a small step for the digital single market and a small step for the cybersecurity of the union, but it is a step in the right direction and it will be one of very many other steps.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the positive remarks today. this final text not only modernises the .eu legal framework but also promotes the rule of law in the online environment and aims to strengthen the multi—stakeholder approach in line with the eu approach on internet governance. as the digital single market grows and develops, we look forward to seeing many more people and businesses making use of the .eu domain as an important way to participate in the digital single market (dsm) and mark their european identity online. i look forward to a positive outcome of tomorrow’s vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, it’s not often that parliament is as united as we have been in this process. it has been, i would say, a work of excellence – and not just because i was the rapporteur, but i had the good help of mr gunnar hökmark and a few other shadows. i’m also looking forward to the vote tomorrow. i think it will be a rather swift and smooth one – just like the one and only trilogue, which lasted one hour and 17 minutes. so thank you commissioner, thank you council and thank you to all the staff who have been helping in preparing all our meetings, and thank you to the shadow colleagues.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf commissioner vestager i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr reimon, and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent report. mr reimon, i will be happy to give my colleague, margrethe vestager, your positive message and your positive assessment of the cooperation with her. the report shows why competition is at the heart of politics and will be part of the debate in the upcoming european elections. we all buy in the marketplace every day. we want to be confident that companies are giving us a fair deal, and if we are in business we want our factories to grow, not to be squeezed out by a dominant player or by a rival getting unfair subsidies. by keeping markets open we give everybody a fair shot at success. that goes to the heart of our democracy. at the commission, we will continue to do our part to ensure that every business pays its fair share of tax. for us, the state aid rules are clear. eu countries cannot give some companies a selective tax advantage that others don’t get under the normal rules. the commission has taken eight decisions on selective tax benefits for multinationals. the decisions have ordered the recovery of more than eur 15 billion in unpaid taxes from more than 40 companies, most of which are european. this month the commission opened proceedings on nike’s tax arrangements in the netherlands. in parallel, the eu and its member states need to continue their efforts to reform their corporate taxation framework to make it both fairer and more efficient. only better taxation rules will close loopholes that are available to everyone. the commission is also reflecting on our digital future. this month in brussels, commissioner vestager hosted a conference with leading experts on technology and competition. they discussed our digital world and what it means for competition. in the conference, as in the more-than 100 written contributions the commission has received, some issues kept coming up: access to data; threats to competition when big businesses buy innovative start-ups and dodge the disruption they once caused to others; and the possibility for platform businesses that are also users of their own platform to deny rivals a chance to compete. the commission will reflect deeply on all these issues because if competition fails, if prices go up and quality falls, we lose that fundamental promise of our digital world that tomorrow’s technology will be better than today’s. your report makes the important point that markets should also deliver for our environment. we agree and the commission’s decision to approve the bayer—monsanto merger was taken only after the companies committed to sell bayer’s seed and pesticide business to a new rival so that farmers keep a choice of supplier, and competition drives the businesses to deliver novel products that are safer for the environment. within the boundaries of the treaty, we will make markets work for our climate and for our environment. as this parliament says, openness and fair competition benefit our entire industry. we need european champions, but we need the right ones. when companies compete, and are crowned champions because customers choose them to win, that benefits not just consumers but also other businesses – small and medium enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy, and large companies alike. for every company that wants to see a merger there are many european industries that buy their inputs, such as steel or cement. european business customers rely on open competition so that they can get a fair deal, and also so that they can grow on global markets.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all, thanks to the rapporteur for well-implemented negotiations and good compromises. competition policy is very much at the core of the european union – not because the european union is about competition but because we are open to new ideas, innovations, new alternatives, new products, new services and new entrants. competition policy means allowing consumers to be the masters of the market and that means we will ensure not only that no one can abuse market dominance but also that we can always have new entrants in all sorts of markets; not only maintaining pressure on prices but also ensuring we have dynamic development of our economy. that’s why we need legal certainty and the rule of law, and that’s why my political group and i are sceptical about naming and shaming from this parliament, or politicising how the commission implements the competition rules. we must have the rule of law and fair competition, and that also means we need to consider the energy union and big, dominant operators such as gazprom. they must be judged in the same way as any others and their abuse of market dominance must entail a reaction. competition is for the consumers, and for a europe that is open to change and dynamic development.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner jourová, it is a great pleasure for me to join you here today for this important debate. may i begin by recalling our common objective to promote roma inclusion at european union level. this is an objective commonly agreed and which sets the basis for launching a broad and sustained push for action at european level. eight years ago the european commission, the european parliament and the council joined forces to set up the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. we did this in order to act, to prevent and discourage any discriminatory action towards this group of vulnerable persons. we are all aware of the difficulties and challenges faced by roma citizens in our societies nowadays. from this perspective, we need to ensure the required instruments for properly addressing them. it will take determined efforts by a whole range of stakeholders to see concrete results on the ground within roma communities and in our societies. it is indeed a challenge that would not be solved overnight but that requires a continuous political will and support from all member states and european institutions. it is precisely for this reason that the council, the commission and the parliament agreed on the need for a strategic approach. a sustained strategy is the only way to heal long—neglected communities, to stamp out discrimination and to bring real opportunities to all, including the poorest. in pursuing this vision, we are guided by our common european values and we are supported by the vigorous actions of the commission. and it fits perfectly with the political priorities that will guide the romanian presidency of the council of the eu which runs under the motto ‘cohesion: a common european value’. let me thank the european parliament for taking up this important subject on the eu agenda. in the turbulent times we live in today, a great many social challenges require our attention. against the loud shouts of populism it is not easy to speak up for the voiceless and the unpopular. yet we must speak. social policy should not be at the mercy of headlines, trends and electioneering. social regeneration takes time. deeply—rooted disadvantages cannot be wished away in an instant. the list of challenges that we have sought to address in our common strategic framework spans the whole range of fundamental social needs: employment; housing; health; and education. these four things are the building blocks of a decent life. the deprivation faced by this community is so comprehensive that it seems to defy description. and yet it can be summed up in one word: poverty. according to the eu fundamental rights agency, the overwhelming majority of roma, some 80%, live in poverty, but roma are also one of the groups at greatest risk of discrimination, and these two facts –, poverty and discrimination – are interlinked. we already have legislation in europe that outlaws racist discrimination, but as everyone knows legislation is not enough. rules must be implemented in practice and attitudes must change. i therefore thank the european parliament for insisting on this aspect, for leading the call for more action to stamp out racism and discrimination and hate speech. the council has also highlighted this issue, recognising anti—gypsyism as a root cause of the social exclusion and discrimination suffered by roma. in this context i am pleased to announce that the romanian presidency will be hosting a high—level conference on the eu framework for national roma integration strategies in bucharest on march 4 and 5. we look forward to welcoming representatives of the parliament, member states, civil society and roma organisations at this event. the commission has recently evaluated the effectiveness of our efforts under our shared strategic framework. our conference will give member states and other stakeholders the opportunity to reflect on the results of this evaluation and on the best way forward. to highlight just one topic in its evaluation report, the commission notes that education is the field in which most progress has been seen. more roma are now benefiting from schooling. this is encouraging. however, i am sure we all agree that progress has been slow and must be stepped up in all four key areas: education; employment; housing; and health. the added value of cooperation at eu level is very clear. the council has already called on the commission to propose a post-2020 strategy. therefore, let us here today renew our commitment to end marginalisation and exclusion. together we can make a brighter future for roma and a better society for all citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking parliament for tabling this debate on the implementation of and follow-up to the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. it comes at an important time, as the commission has just concluded its in-depth evaluation of the framework. i would also like to mention parliament’s ambitious 2017 report focusing on the fight against anti-gypsyism. it made a major contribution to the evaluation and will continue to inspire reflection on the post-2020 eu approach that we are now launching with this debate. further, i would like to thank the council for having invited the commission to carry out the evaluation and then to propose a post-2020 strategic approach. we are all allies in this important quest to make equality and the inclusion of roma a reality. i would like to thank, ep vice-president lívia járóka and honourable member soraya post, in particular, for their work, and also to thank many of you, honourable members, who are present here today for your commitment to the cause. let me now highlight some of the most important results of the evaluation. it has confirmed that the four priority areas – employment, education, health and housing – continue to be key to roma inclusion. at the same time, anti-gypsyism has increasingly been recognised as a root cause of roma exclusion. the evaluation found that a specific non-discrimination goal and a stronger focus on the suppression of anti-gypsyism would make the framework stronger. the report notes that the framework achieved positive eu added value by putting roma inclusion on the eu and national agendas. it facilitated the development of new structures and increased consistency between the eu policy, legal and funding instruments that have been mobilised and aligned in pursuit of roma inclusion. these include the european semester, the racial equality directive and the european structural and investment funds. the framework provided flexibility for member states to adapt their objectives to specific national contexts. the evaluation found that this tailored approach also contributed to fragmented implementation, reduced effectiveness and limited progress towards eu-roma integration goals. the framework, however, had limited capacity to deal with diversity among roma. it did not pay sufficient attention to targeting specific groups such as roma women, youth, children as well as eu-mobile roma. the evaluation showed that the eu framework is the beginning of a process which, despite many limitations and taking into account the massive task involved, has demonstrated some positive results and an initial change in trends, education, especially, being the area that has seen most progress. it also shows that continued commitment is still needed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in the european parliament, we have been working hand in hand with several colleagues across the political spectrum to fight the dehumanisation of roma in europe. we have been working hard for years now to ensure that the birth of roma children will be registered without discrimination, as is the case for non—roma children; that roma children have full access to the same education as non—roma children; that we roma have easy access to clean and safe drinking water; that we have access to electricity; that we will not be forced to move to another eu country and live on begging; that we do not have to live in fear. we want to end the unacceptable apartheid that so many roma live under in our otherwise emancipated societies. but in order to achieve this, we need to continue the eu framework after 2020, and we need to do it in an approved format. we need to have a strategic eu framework, with a wider set of priority areas, clear targets, timelines and indicators for monitoring. following the 12 pages of demands and recommendations in my anti—gypsyism report, the fight against anti—gypsies has to be horizontal and roma participation has to be safeguarded from the very start of the process. for that, we also need to work on trust building through a true recognition and reconciliation process. this is crucial. we have to mix the communities and we have to create trust. i would like to finish by thanking our commission colleagues, the fundamental rights agency and also all the ngos for joining our fight for the realisation of the values compiled in our treaties throughout these years and thank you to the council. i really appreciate your initiative to have the conference in bucharest.
mr president, please excuse me if i’m being too blunt in my speech. i’ve been looking at these strategies and listening to our speeches. i had the privilege of working with the swedish strategy for roma inclusion and, yes, things are improving. we are doing something. but still, the gap between our speeches and roma realities is so big that it is actually unnerving. the simple and major reason for that is a lack of political will to do something to help roma and solve the problems they are facing. some countries are avoiding doing it, some countries are not prioritising the tasks, and some countries are even consciously not doing anything, hoping that the roma will move from their country and live in another country. this is the bitter reality. we have a million excuses for why things haven’t been improving and not a single one is good. not a single one actually explains the reality. let us not be too pessimistic. this is a good initiative. i want to thank the council, the commission, the people from parliament – soraya post and madam vice—president – working on this strategy. let us hope that the high—level meeting in bucharest will be the first concrete step towards actually improving the situation, which we can do. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr president and thank you to madam grapini for posing the question. i do agree with certain things, but i have to say, we have all possible strategies, we have everything, we know what is to be done, we know what should be done. what we are lacking is political will and implementation of the things in order to improve the situation. when we start to do that, we will achieve the results, i’m completely sure of that.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in a democracy, you can't buy political influence. there are more than 30 000 lobbyists in brussels, and most of them work for commercial special interests helping their employers to get their way. time and again we see political proposals being undermined by lobbyists. the committee has a good and balanced compromise proposal on lobbying, which means that it should be done openly, not in secret. if an energy politician, for example, listens only to the gas lobby and never to the environmental movement, the voters should know that. the proposal encourages politicians to listen to both sides, and the transparency of this proposal means that the playing field between those with a lot of money and those with good arguments is more even. when i hear the arguments against the proposal, i wonder if the epp has even read it. this is not true of all encounters with people on the street or in elevators. this is the case with scheduled meetings, which are scheduled and entered in a calendar. if you do not want to book an appointment with someone in an elevator, then do not book an appointment with someone in an elevator! it's as simple as that. support the compromise!
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? over 65% of all university graduates in the eu are women. they have the knowledge, they have the experience for the top jobs on corporate boards. yet they continue to be marginalized from influence. this is completely unacceptable! but it's not only unfair, it's stupid. it's a waste of skills. the likelihood of innovation in gender-equal enterprises is almost twice as high. in addition, it has long been demonstrated that the more women among the top managers of listed companies, the better the conditions for financial performance that benefits the companies. nevertheless, many member states and right-wing politicians continue to consistently oppose the proposal that at least 40 per cent of the non-executive board members should be of the underrepresented sex. it's a very strange policy. we are therefore very pleased to note that spain has now changed its mind and withdrawn its reservation in the council of ministers. romania should therefore take this seriously and not just be full of fancy words but act to ensure that we have fairness and better opportunities for innovation in europe.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. fish are a common resource and must be managed with care. it is not a self-evident right to fish if it endangers the survival of the stock. we have a responsibility to manage these fish stocks in a sustainable way for the marine ecosystem, but also for future generations so that they can eat fish too. it is therefore regrettable that the management plan for western waters is contrary to the sustainable management of our fish stocks. this is one of a series of management plans that consistently go against the common fisheries policy rules adopted in 2013. the plan allows fishing above sustainable levels. that's a very short-term move. this has long-term implications for our ecosystems, where all species fulfill their functions. we greens cannot accept this and will therefore vote against this plan.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as in most west african countries, fish is the main source of protein for the ivorian population. competition from industrial vessels and oil extraction limits the possibilities of small-scale fishing. women working in the sector have access to fish only for four months of the year. the rest of the time they have to buy imported fish, landed in the port of abidjan, sold by middlemen whose only goal is to squeeze out as much profit as possible. cheap, high-quality raw materials are hard to come by. but there are so-called fake tuna landed by european vessels. it's damaged tuna that's not used in canneries. the new agreement will give the local market access to 10,000 tonnes of fake tuna. it is a top priority for the women's cooperatives to have access to this fish rather than the middlemen who drive up the prices. the issue of fish for women in west africa may seem a small part of the picture. but this is very, very important for building local resilience in the ivory coast.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank madam bresso and all the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work on this report. i will concentrate on the rate of participation in eu elections, which is usually low, diminishing at every election and consequently threatening the legitimacy both of the elections and the eu. there is one main reason for this: voters do not feel that there is a straight connection between what they vote for and what policy they will get. because of the complicated decision-making system, if they vote, for example, for the socialist group to be the biggest here, it is not at all sure that they will get more socialist politics in the eu, nor a socialist in charge of the commission. strengthening the link between the results of the election and policy, through the spitzenkandidat procedure, may make european voters more prone to vote. it is creating a more visible and more direct link between what you vote for and what you get. and ultimately it is increasing interest in the elections and enhancing the legitimacy of the eu, and thereby that of democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am proud to be a member of a parliament which has so clearly taken a stand in support of the forces that want to bring venezuela out of its deep democratic crisis. there is of course still reason to monitor the situation, but we will continue to support guaidó's ambition to move the country towards free and democratic elections. but this parliament also did another service. it is thanks to our stand that the government of my own country - which likes to talk about the importance of democracy and human rights - was reminded that there is a real choice between dictatorship and democracy. it took them a week, or a couple of weeks, to make that stand, but they finally did. i am ashamed of my venezuelan colleagues who have been beaten, tortured, killed. the foreign minister's party comrades and the left party chose not to support the resolution and thus betrayed democracy in favor of the creature of dictatorship. it's actually just sad.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work on this file. european cross-border healthcare is becoming much more important due to the free movement of europeans. that is good. but that’s why we also have the obligation to improve it and make it function properly when it doesn’t. one of the major areas in which we have to improve is the transparency of health care providers and how they function. if i didn’t know whether i would be reimbursed or what type of care i had a right to, i would never dare go to a hospital in another country. furthermore, the transparency mechanism and the right to compensation and reimbursement and the complaint mechanism has to be improved. people will never go to a hospital in other countries if they don’t know how well it functions. the healthcare directive can be a good european answer to the questions posed by globalisation, but it has to be improved if we want it to be a solution that works in reality.
madam president, as european parliament coordinator on children’s rights, i propose this oral amendment: ‘to explicitly consider children as a priority when programming and implementing the strategic national roma integration strategy, reiterates the importance of protecting and promoting equal access to all rights for roma children’.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for keeping up the pace of the work, not just in bosnia and herzegovina, but even in the region. it’s impressive, actually. i agree with the rapporteur that the pace of reforms in the country has been slowed down by the elections. we are still waiting for the formation of the government, we don’t have formal cooperation with the parliament and rule of law has not been improved as we had hoped. but there are encouraging signs, both in the long term and the short term. in the short term, there is better economic governance, we have seen the encouraging results in the local elections, we have a decreasing number of returnees from the areas affected by terrorism, and we have seen three presidents come here and work together. it’s actually the first time in my life that i have seen them together. so it is extremely important to keep up the pace of the european perspective. it gives the perspective to the country and is a motor for the reforms. thank you for doing that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a swedish member of parliament, i am proud to be italian. but i recognize myself less and less in my own great country: italy that works, that has a big heart, that does not stand by while children are abandoned at sea, that believes in human values and that knows that europe is our common future. in less than a year, italy has lost ground, image and credibility on all fronts. he is concerned about the mismanagement of the economy, which has led italy into recession. the young people, mr president, are asking for work, not for alms. dignity, not propaganda: what concrete answers do you have to give - perhaps you can also listen to me - to the unemployed and to the scourge of debt that impoverishes families and businesses? but he is even more concerned about his government's sovereignist drift, which is weakening italy in the world. europe is the solution, not the problem. the italians want a country that can build bridges, not dig ditches. reforming europe is fine, but you can't do it alone. italy needs more help on migration, he is right, but solidarity is achieved through dialogue, not insults. no more of these absurd quarrels with our neighbors, no more of bad company like putin. it is not by isolating oneself that one moves forward, but by building alliances. president change course! de gasperi and spinelli are watching you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. finally, a free trade agreement with singapore, one of the world's most free trade-friendly countries. it should be pretty easy, but it's taken ten years. it's not their fault. it's our fault. i am not talking about the commission, but about the council, and i am not talking about the commission, but about the council. this has damaged the eu's trade policy. we have treated singapore badly. it's about being honest about it. but this is a good deal. it's a very good deal with a dynamic economy in southeast asia. and tomorrow we should vote for it. it was unanimous. nevertheless, there are many here - far too many - who want to bring together the extremes of the right and the left, along with many from the social democrats and the greens, to try to roll back european trade policy, to leave room for china, for europe to follow the example of the united states. it would be the worst thing we could do in these times. i hope that we can achieve broad consensus and restore the trust that this process has damaged.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. women's rights are a central part of democracy. that should be a given in 2019. yet we stand here today and we see the obvious: that we are indeed having a setback, a backlash. it's ideological or political in the way that you talk about women and men and gender equality. conservative and nationalist forces of the extreme right hate and threaten our rights. it is also factual or material in the sense of increased poverty among women, unemployment, reduced access to public services and targeting of women's organisations and women's activists. the fight for equality and women's rights has not been a natural law, as my mother always said: it's only going to keep getting better, malin. no, it's been a battle and victories have been won. it's been voting rights, it's been abortion rights, it's been economic independence. and now we're here today again, i feel. we're not going to avoid, we're just not going to avoid and take a step back. we will demand that we move forward. this feminist fight will never, ever give up. we will not allow the conservative forces here or anywhere else to take control of our lives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in my almost 15 years in the european parliament, gender equality and women's rights have been one of my absolute top priorities. gender equality is one of the eu's fundamental values and is essential for the functioning of europe. all member states have committed themselves, in accordance with the eu treaties, to respect, guarantee, protect and fulfil fundamental rights and women's rights. the fact that this is not done in the eu or in the member states makes me angry, to say the least. the decade we are in is marked by a conspicuously organized frontal assault on equality and women's rights. it's going backwards, not forwards. a number of member states are restricting access to sexual and reproductive health, organisations working for women's rights are being denied the opportunity to act, and we see in this report, in black and white, that only very marginal progress has been made in this area between 2005 and 2015. for me as a feminist, this is deeply, deeply serious.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened with great interest to this discussion and i am grateful for your invaluable interest and engagement. let me react a little bit. some people raised issues about medical devices, prosthesis and so on. now we have a new medical devices directive; now we are carrying out a health technology assessment because it’s about innovation in cancer treatment. let’s go forward. it is in our hands to regulate the environment, speaking about multinationals and so on, and it’s about transparency. let’s take carcinogens. we included a lot of new carcinogens on the list when we talked about safety at work. acrylamides, endocrine disruptors, the fight against tobacco, a tracking and tracing system, the possibilities of strictly regulating pesticides. we did a lot in those four and a half years together and thank you. we are cooperating in cancer prevention. that is the comprehensive answer, of course. sitting on top of cancer requires investment in research and innovation. through each framework programme for research, the eu has invested some eur 2.8 billion since 2007 on prevention. altogether this is ok – we are moving forward. some eur 440 million have been devoted in the last ten years to cancer that specifically affects women, mainly targeting breast cancer and cancers of the reproductive organs. secondly, access to data also empowers patients. in this light, i would like to inform you about the adoption last week of the recommendation of the creation of a secure system that really enables citizens to access their electronic health files across member states and can help us to support those who are suffering from cancer. finally, i would like to underline that cancer treatment is no longer just about survival. we therefore need to ensure that the reintegration into education, employment and daily life for women having suffered from cancer is as easy as possible. it is the responsibility of employers and trade unions, and it would also be good to raise questions about cancer at the council of the heads of state or government. in 1980 it was raised at council level and now there is not one word from the european president. it’s time to show political will to move forward and encourage all member state’s governments to do more.
author. – madam president, in ‘lgbti’, what does the ‘i’ stand for? it stands for intersex people, not for ideology. behind that unknown letter, there are people who suffer from discrimination and violence, and have suffered since childhood. i’m proud to be the author for the ppe group of what is the first-ever resolution on the human rights of intersex people – the forgotten letter ‘i’. children are being subjected, without informed consent, to medical treatment and surgical operations which damage their health and reproductive rights. think! what if it was your child? in this time of populism on both sides of the atlantic, the human rights agenda is under attack. we are seeing a normalisation of sexist and homophobic rhetoric, in which the lgbti community has become an easy target of the extreme right. discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity should not have any place in our modern societies. i want to agree with you, mr moraes, that the anti—discrimination directive, on which i am the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group, should move forward. it’s unacceptable that it has been blocked for years in the council. too often, lgbti people are victims of bullying, hate speech, homophobia, stereotypes and stigmatisation, at school and online. the european union must stand up for open societies and take the lead in respecting fundamental rights globally, living up to our core values of tolerance, equality and diversity. while legislation, including on access to justice, is a necessary step, it’s not enough. we have to join forces to change the rhetoric and the attitudes, and, with our joint resolution, we should secure the future of the lgbti list of actions that expires now. so, we are calling on you, commissioner, and on the commission to adopt a clear strategy and an action plan to make sure that we will promote and protect lgbti people in europe and beyond, recognising that lgbti rights are human rights.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. lgbtq people are subjected to discrimination, to hate crimes, to threats. lgbtq families are not recognized no free movement here, anyway. trans and intersex people are subjected to abusive practices and even genital mutilation. lgbtq refugees locked up and deported 2019 in europe. in some countries, progress has been made in the struggle and solidarity between different groups, but in other countries, it is going in the wrong direction. nationalists and conservatives are attacking our rights. they're organizing themselves, saying we're unnatural. we are freaks. we are unwanted. it's got to be over. it is time to strike back and we will do so together with other movements that want to see a better europe and a more human and equal future queer solidarity, my friends refugee solidarity movements, women's movements, workers' rights movements and many others who want to see a human and equal future. we demand political action. i can't believe that the ministers couldn't even agree on a few lines about lgbtq rights, because then orbán and poland and others said no. here, colleagues have managed to agree on a strategy for the rights of intersex people. we're moving up positions. we also demand a comprehensive approach to lgbtq rights against discrimination, a new anti-discrimination legislation. we need to stop hate crimes and threats against lgbtq people. we need to support all lgbtq kids around europe. we need to stand up for the rainbow families. we're not going to disappear. i myself was planning to come back here as an mep after the elections in may, and then it will be a political workshop, believe me. then we'll move the positions forward. because our bodies, our lives, our dreams, our desires are not only a reality, but they are also an opportunity for anyone who wants to break with gender-conservative notions to see the greatness of what it means to be human with different families, different dreams, different lives and different bodies. take that chance.
in writing. – working on structural funds and the cpr, my main goal was to ensure that the relevant funds become a tool to protect, develop and empower people. i wanted to ensure that the future projects financed by these funds will be as inclusive and as non-discriminatory as possible and that they will enable better life prospects for everybody in the eu. through the non-discriminatory outreach of these funds, we can hopefully eradicate poverty, one of the greatest challenges in the eu today, and achieve the sdgs, thereby making our society a sustainable one. i am happy to see that so many of my amendments to this end were taken on board by the regi committee. i am relieved to see that the elimination of poverty has been designated as one of the goals of cpr, similarly to the achievement of the sdgs. i am also proud to see that my call for a stronger gender aspect in all dimensions and stages of the relevant programmes was incorporated into the text. and finally, i am happy to read that my push for more transparency was heard.
bosnia and herzegovina has made great progress which should be noted. among other things, it has adopted several painful reforms of the kind that are currently shaking the french government. however, there is still a great deal to be done. we want to see an improved rule of law, a more efficient administration, a depoliticised judiciary and a freer media. that is why it is important that the eu continues to support the country, continues to support the reform process, offers a long-term eu perspective and helps with administrative and financial support to the country, as it has done so far. the report is well balanced and presents a realistic picture of the country. that's why i support it.
mr president, taxes are always paid by the taxpayers. you can hear that in the name. it doesn’t matter how you do it, but it will always be the taxpayers who pay tax, and the fact is that in the european union we have the highest taxes in the world. european taxpayers are paying much more tax – 10% to 15% higher – than any of the economies competing with us. that’s a problem for jobs and investment which we won’t solve by having even higher taxes at european level, although you over there always believe that higher taxes are fair and just. it is fair and just that people can live on their incomes. it is fair and just that we can attract investment and get new jobs and more taxpayers: thatʼs fair and just.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have had the privilege of living during a period when walls between countries were being dismantled, when disarmament and de-escalation between countries were a reality in our immediate vicinity. a period when the cold war ended and we started to socialize, when the borders opened and trade between our countries increased. but now it looks different. climate change is the greatest threat to us humans on earth, and not far behind is the nuclear threat. both can be avoided if the political will is there. if countries can agree on both budgets and rules, we can deal with both climate change and peace. but instead of disarmament, we see a rearmament around the world. more and more countries have acquired nuclear weapons. the development of unmanned weapons systems has been going on for a long time, and now there is a race to be the first to acquire deadly autonomous weapons. the collapse of the inf treaty between the united states and russia is extremely worrying. the agreement nevertheless resulted in the destruction of over 3 000 missiles, and has played a major role in reducing tensions in our part of the world. i also call on the parties to return to the agreement. we are now faced with a choice between participating in the arms race or actually trying to insist that war does not solve the world's problems and that we must do everything in our power to prevent them from occurring. in 2017, the un convention on the prohibition of nuclear weapons was adopted in response to the non-compliance of nuclear-weapon states with the non-proliferation treaty. it is time for the member states to sign and ratify it. someone has to go first. we have to think about future generations.
(president-in-office of the council)on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for this important exchange. i think the importance of the preservation of the inf treaty for european and global security, as well as our common preoccupation with increased stress to our security, has been very well highlighted. i will not respond to the last point that was raised. i am here representing the high representative, so i think it makes no sense if you take into account whom i represent here. i would also like to refer to the fact that i think nobody here spoke as much as they should have about the allegation that the russian federation has begun producing and deploying new missiles, which could be aimed at member states and which are not in compliance with russia’s treaty obligation. this deserved to be treated more seriously and needs to be resolved. this should happen through a responsible dialogue, including at the highest levels. the stakes are simply too high. now we come to the allegations concerning the nato capabilities in romania or poland. we made it very public and it was very transparent –which is not the case for any of the russian missiles – that we know what we have in these places and we made it very clear that this is not a violation or a prohibition of the possession of missiles, if there really is a defensive factor. and i think it is not fair to say that the european union is not doing enough to save the inf treaty. the eu has a long record of speaking in support of inf treaty preservation and implementation – both bilaterally in our contacts with the state parties and very publicly in multiple international fora like the united nations general assembly, the conference of disarmament in geneva, the review conferences of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty and on multiple other occasions. the most recent example was the agreed eu statement delivered on 18 october 2018 at the first committee (disarmament intelligence and security) of the un general assembly in new york, which included the following passage: ‘we call on the russian federation to address serious concerns regarding its compliance with the inf treaty in a substantial and transparent way. we ask the united states and the russian federation to remain engaged in active dialogue to preserve the inf treaty and ensure its full and verifiable implementation, which is crucial for europe and other regions’ security.’ so this is what i wanted to say and i think i will thank you on behalf of the high representative for being part of the discussion today.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr proust for the work you’ve done here –tireless, energetic and also very inclusive. also mr bütikofer for the work you have done and the very constructive approach that you and your colleagues had in the trilogues that we’ve been doing jointly on this. as you know, the commission made it a priority to finalise legislation on the foreign direct investments (fdi) screening before the end of this term. president juncker announced it here, sitting here, in his state of the european union in september 2017, when he announced that he wanted to move on to propose a proposal on investment screening. and with your support we are about to deliver just that for our citizens, that their security and public order interest will be protected. by concluding this file we send a very strong message to our partners. we are open in the european union to foreign investment. that is, and has been and will be fundamental to growth, jobs etc. but a condition for being open is to be able to trust that foreign investors will not threaten our security and our strategic interests. increasingly, in an interconnected and interdependent world, we share opportunities but also threats, and this becomes even more important in the internal market where a foreign investment in one member state might have an impact in another, or the whole union. in september when we launched the proposal, this was, as was said by the two rapporteurs, a new policy area. several member states and some of our international partners, actually, most of them, were already experienced in this type of legislation, screening foreign direct investment. but the majority of our member states did not have their own legislation or mechanism in place. this proposal has triggered a constructive debate at european and national level, and what we see is that several member states are now in the course of reforming or even introducing their own screening mechanisms. this regulation will help set a common framework, increase cooperation and information sharing and building on efficient practices. thanks to the new regulation, member states and the commission will have a much better overview of foreign investment in the eu. moreover, for the first time, they would have the possibility to collectively assess potential risks to their security and public order. i welcome parliament’s and the member states’ understanding of the need for a key role for the commission here as well in this mechanism, when security and public order in several member states could be at risk or with projects of the union’s interest, like galileo or horizon 2020, fundamental for our future. in its initial position and in the course of the negotiations, parliament has made it clear that it was supporting this proposal and it has sought further improvement, and they have largely passed into the final compromise. the cooperation mechanism has been reinforced in many aspects. for instance, with the possibility for a member state to proactively seek opinions or comments, the strengthened provisions on anti-circumvention or an increased scrutiny by the commission when a third of member states issue concerns on a specific foreign investment. furthermore, you have proposed reporting with the yearly public report on the implementation of the regulation. international cooperation with like-minded third countries is also encouraged, and i would like to thank you for these improvements. tomorrow’s vote will be an important milestone. as we will be shifting towards implementation, we will use the transition phase to ensure that member states and the commission can swiftly put in place the necessary arrangements for this new mechanism. i think we can all salute this moment and hope for a very strong vote tomorrow because we know that this is of concern to our member states, to our companies, to our citizens, and we will have delivered by then.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'd like to begin by thanking franck proust, who has led the work on this honor. but before we discuss investment review, i think we need to start at the right place, establishing some important truths. the first is that investment, even foreign investment, is good. they create jobs and growth, and we need more of that in europe jobs, growth and investment. this was particularly evident after the euro and financial crises. the second, the big problem we have in europe today, unfortunately, is still investment protectionism, that countries want to protect their crown jewels from international or foreign ownership. sometimes frenchmen who want to protect themselves from italians, sometimes italians from frenchmen, sometimes dutchmen who don't want to sell akzo nobel to americans. but it's not just investment protectionism that's the problem, and it's not just too little investment that's the problem. after all, we have too many trading partners who are investing with other than commercial interests. not all our trading partners have good intentions, and we must have the tools to meet them. sometimes it's about security policy. sometimes it is about stealing technology or sabotaging technological development in europe. then we'll need a full toolbox to deal with it. this initiative should be followed up by further initiatives, for example in the area of trade and security policy, to protect our cybersecurity. what we are seeing today with huawei and zte worries me that i cannot call home from brussels to sweden without doing so over chinese telecommunications networks. this should also be a lesson for sweden, because sweden is one of the few countries in europe that does not have such investment letters. i think that instead of standing in the corner and thinking that we know best, sweden should look to our neighbouring countries in europe and learn from their example.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all those involved in this important work. the eu's openness to foreign direct investment is not just about money and job creation, but also about the technology and knowledge that investors bring with them. even if we have a positive starting point, we must recognize that the world has changed. not all investors act on purely commercial grounds. we should not be naive or foolish, therefore, particularly in the strategically and security-wise important sectors in which some well-known state-owned enterprises from a number of countries operate and which do not play on equal terms. it is therefore very good that the eu is addressing this issue and providing a clear framework. i think it is very welcome that the member states have recognised the need to deal with the problem and that we are now working together better on it. a unified eu approach can help to address the challenges of foreign direct investment in the eu, which is very important and positive in these times we are living in.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. you could say that our arrangement reduces the cost of crossborder payments in euro for consumers and businesses across the eu, and i think that's very good indeed. but in the long term, all eu currencies need to be covered by the regulation. there is no reason for eu legislation to discriminate against countries outside the euro area. new transparency rules are being introduced for crossborder transfers, which i think is a positive thing and also a positive thing for consumers. as regards rules on foreign exchange charges for purchases and withdrawals abroad, it will continue to be very difficult for consumers to compare the costs of the different services. it is almost always cheaper to pay in the local currency of the countries in which you are located. however, the new rules will not allow for real-time price comparison between the costs of the bank's services and dynamic currency conversion services. consumers need to be better informed about dynamic currency conversion and how expensive it really is. it could be 8 to 12 percent. it's a scam that swindles consumers out of large sums of money every year. unfortunately, the council was not willing to consult parliament on this matter. i therefore hope that the legislators who will come after me will address this issue. this is an important issue and i also believe that we should try to find common solutions in the eu. i hope, then, as i said, that we will be able to do so through legislation that may come after me here on this issue.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank my colleagues and the rapporteur, mr jørn dohrmann, for a very good job. when we worked on these texts, there was a great deal of agreement between the political groups. we rarely get this far as we do on the issues of animal welfare and the way we treat the animals in the european union. we also know from the eurobarometer report presented last february that one of the issues on which european citizens want us to work more is to ensure the protection of the animals that live in the european union. that is also why it is possible for the gue and the epp, for example, to even sign the same type of compromise here, which is a great step forward and shows a political will to act on behalf of the citizens. each year, 1.37 billion animals are transported within or across eu borders. at the same time, we see a total failure on the part of the member states to carry out checks and to ensure that the legislation in force is applied. we also know that if you break this, there are basically no consequences at all. we would need a commission which takes this task seriously, which is also contained in our founding treaties of the european union. i am therefore glad that we are coming with a harsher criticism today from the european parliament, that is to say that it is time for the european ombudsman to look at whether the commission is really fulfilling the mandate it has under the treaties. we know that when the commission really wants something, it can do something. the big problem here is not the commissioner in charge, but the colleagues in the commission who have held back. when it comes to time change and summer and winter time, we can have concrete legislative proposals affecting the whole union in a few months. but here - in the field of animal welfare - we have not made a single step forward in five years. we have not seen any new animal welfare strategy. we have not had a common basic law on animal welfare, and these scandals continue. this must be stopped by the next term, at the latest.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would just like to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms rozière, the shadow rapporteurs and the commission for the good cooperation on this on this report. in order to ensure that we as consumers and citizens of the eu have access to the best, most priceworthy products at all times, it is necessary to ensure that the internal market functions as efficiently as it can, in order to allow trade with the rest of the world and in order to allow distribution across the union. as has been mentioned, we have already achieved the agreement on when to digitalise the union code as fully as was planned from the beginning. but by implementing this opinion, we make sure that the whole custom procedures regulating the market are made as efficient as possible. a functional customs union is one of the cores of the union. by easing bureaucratic burdens and investing in better digital infrastructure, we will improve competitiveness on the market, trading conditions for companies and products for consumers. however, as in most european projects, everything is about the implementation. therefore, i think this initiative is a necessary step for the creation of a truly seamless custom union and single market. this will allow our companies in the union to take part in a healthy competition, allow us better trade with the rest of the world, be also open to the very investors abroad coming to the union and increasing competition allows for the best merchandise and products of the season on the internal market, thus ensuring improved quality of the goods that we are buying on an everyday basis. that’s why i welcome the report and congratulate my colleagues on doing it.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all those involved in the drafting of this resolution. the situation in zimbabwe is an emergency and it is very important that we pay attention to it and that we in the european parliament clearly draw attention to the developments in the country since 14 january. we must make a clear statement against the use of violence and harassment against citizens and trade unionists who choose to peacefully protest against the sharp price increases that have hit the country. all political prisoners must be released immediately and we must make a clear statement against the widespread sexual violence. people affected must have immediate access to medical care. i had hoped that the resolution would have taken a clearer stand for the affected trade union leaders peter mutasa and japhet moyo and the zimbabwe congress of trade unions in general, but i am glad that this resolution has broad support in parliament and that it is a clear support for the people of zimbabwe, who have suffered for a long time, for human rights and for peaceful and democratic development.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, to the saudi authorities: shame on you. you arrest and torture women just because they defend their human rights. how come you don’t look at women as human beings? we women across the world request that you release these women immediately. the male guardianship system has to be abolished and all forms of gender-based violence, including genital mutilation, marital rape, sexual assault and harassment, has to be criminalised. stop this cruelty to human beings. we look forward to positive changes and actions. we know that you can do better.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are now at the end of the process of these two proposals. it's been a long journey, which has become much more complicated than i first thought. the basic objective of these proposals to enable criminal courts in the member states to exchange information on convictions of third-country nationals with each other is commendable. in substance, our group has no objection to the establishment of a new information system to remedy the shortcomings of the present system. we have seen problems with the way the commission and the council have wanted to design the system. some of these have been resolved in the course of the work, but the main problem for us has been the possible discrimination, and more concrete differences in treatment, between persons who have only eu citizenship, persons who have eu citizenship plus a citizenship of a country outside the union and, finally, third country nationals. the difference in treatment is how many of the databases you register in and whether fingerprints are to be taken. during the negotiations we tried, together with alde, the greens and gue, to put forward proposals for solutions based on objective criteria, but unfortunately we were not given a hearing during the negotiations. it has also become apparent during the course of the negotiations that the commission has in part pursued other aims than merely to set up a system for the exchange of convictions. instead, the focus was on the future use of data in the context of so-called interoperability, i.e. the interconnection of eu information systems. in the run-up to the european parliament elections, in which far-right and racist parties are likely to gain ground, it is important that we do not back down from basic principles. i am concerned that we are sending out signals that people who are nationals of countries outside the union can be given special treatment. at the same time, i'm the foundation of a system of exchanging convictions, but not in the way that's being proposed. after much deliberation, i, as shadow rapporteur, will recommend that our group abstain from the vote.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. as our societies become more digital, they also become more vulnerable. that is why i am pleased that we are voting tomorrow to strengthen cybersecurity in europe. now we're increasing the resources to make our digital systems more robust. with stricter certification rules, we can be confident that our mobile phones, computers and other digital products, which we use every day, meet the high security standards we set in europe. this legislation will strengthen our digital resilience and give us the tools to address both current and future challenges in this area.
rapporteur. – mr president, the european union is, at its core, a peace project. as such, we must remain committed to reinforcing our role as a global actor for peace. the main idea of the report is to reinforce the institutional capacities of the eu for conflict prevention and mediation, as well as to increase the role of the european parliament in this area. our most important suggestions are to establish an eu high—level advisory board on conflict prevention and mediation under the vice president/high representative. this advisory board will set up a pool of senior political mediators and conflict prevention experts. a high—level advisory board for the eu also reflects what the un has successfully put in place under the new secretary-general. we also need an eu special envoy for peace. there is indeed a need for a clear mandate on how to build and promote peace at all levels in the world. furthermore, the establishment of additional institutional mechanisms, such as task forces for specific conflict prevention situations, are also important aspects on how to strengthen the institutional capacities for conflict prevention and mediation. these horizontal mechanisms are a very effective and pragmatic approach to coordinate eu institutional work on the ground. the establishment of a dedicated council working group on conflict prevention and mediation is also a tool put forward in the report. the council must put conflict prevention and mediation high on its agenda and step up its work through focused and informed measures. when it comes to the european parliament, its growing role in political mediation processes – notably via deg activities – is more and more recognised. the report also suggests the appointment of a vice—president responsible for coordinating the mediation and facilitation of dialogue activities. a yearly report to parliament on the progress made in implementing eu policy commitments on conflict prevention and mediation is also requested. additionally, i have been clear on the budget issues. if we want the eu to act and to be efficient on conflict prevention and mediation, we absolutely need to ensure that the new mff will foresee sufficient and earmarked financial resources. we must also see the fundamental logic of the active work and representation of women with women’s experiences, youth and civil society at all stages of conflict prevention and mediation work. this is why i put great effort into mainstreaming the gender perspective in the report, in line with the internationally accepted women, peace and security (wps) agenda. this i reinforced by the eu in the conclusions adopted by the council on women, peace and security just a few months ago, in december 2018. in their conclusions, the council recalls the commitment of the european union and its member states to full implementation of the wps agenda, which consists of un security council resolution 1325 and its follow-up resolutions, ensuring that the 1325 agenda is fully integrated into all eu policies and efforts. i am very surprised by the fact that gender mainstreaming was not accepted by a majority in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). in order to rebalance the report, i have now put forward amendments for the plenary on the following topics: to call for the eu to take a lead role in the implementation of the un security council resolution on women, peace and security; in the systematic establishment of a reconciliation and accountability mechanism; in the establishment of a pool of mediators that includes current and former members of the european parliament; and in the establishment of a european women’s mediator network, and in gender budgeting.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i very much agree with colleagues that human rights are under attack worldwide and on the need to continue to do all we can to prevent gross human rights violations. a major challenge for us is always to focus even more on the day—to—day implementation of our extensive toolbox and convince partners to deliver on existing commitments and obligations. our current eu human rights toolbox is already quite comprehensive, encompassing a strong multilateral and bilateral dimension. the union will continue to denounce human rights violations and abuses wherever they are committed, to call on state and non-state actors to prevent them, and to seek justice and accountability. there is no doubt about that. it’s true that the global landscape is rapidly evolving and we need to ensure that the european union is adequately equipped to remain a leader in the field of human rights. in this context, a targeted assessment is ongoing as to how a european union horizontal human rights sanction regime might bring added value in our collective efforts to further realise human rights and prevent gross violations or abuses of human rights. here the issue of the scope of a possible future regime will be particularly important and the need to define which type of violations would fall under such a regime. should such a regime, for example, focus on gross and systematic human rights violations? should it cover violations of international humanitarian law? should it address corruption cases? another important question is the interplay between such a potential regime and other existing eu sanctions regimes, but also regimes established at un and national level. human rights violations are already addressed in a number of geographical sanction regimes, for example, in the democratic republic of congo (drc), iran and myanmar. here we should consider whether the potential of integrating human rights into geographical regimes has been fully exploited. obviously, there are some existing gaps, since geographical sanction regimes by definition are limited in focus. could a horizontal human rights sanction regime usefully fill such a gap and offer a more flexible approach? last but not least, sanctions listings must be underpinned by robust, open—source evidence in order to be upheld in court. listings are reviewed regularly and listed persons have the right to have their delisting requests considered. respecting due process is an overarching principle underpinning all sanction regimes, but even more so in the context of a potential human rights regime. given these multiple important issues, i am therefore pleased that expert discussions are taking place in the council to look in detail at all these elements. once the experts have finalised their discussions, more political discussions can take place. the creation of any new regime is a matter for the 28 member states to agree by unanimity, as is the imposition of concrete sanctions. thank you for your attention and your interest. i am looking forward to our discussion.
blue-card question. – i want to raise the question as to why the green group would not support naming this legislation the ‘magnitsky act’ – not only because it has a symbolic meaning, which is obvious, but because it’s a way of defining why we need to have this legislation in place, and to send a signal to those who use criminality to make themselves rich at the expense of their own people. why couldn’t your group support giving this legislation the proper name?
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are now dealing with the commission's 2017 report on turkey, and as everyone knows, a lot has happened since then. it started with the invasion of afrin as early as january 2018. i visited turkey twice last year. this summer i paid a visit to diyarbakir. i interviewed politicians, networks, organisations and citizens in general about the situation there. i visited the district of sur, or rather, i gazed over what was left of sur from the top of the world heritage walls. i also attended the full day of the trial in ankara of, among others, the turkish green spokesmen, who are accused of having signed a petition against the invasion of afrin. i met with academics, the eu delegation and many, many others. i asked everyone the same question about how they viewed the continuation of the accession negotiations. and i got the same answer: be very tough on the regime, but don't close the door completely to membership. during my second visit in december, i met with representatives of the defence forces and a number of syrian rebel groups, in addition to organisations and politicians. the agenda included, as they put it, 'the imminent purge of terrorists in northern syria'. several of them referred to our joint work in combating terrorism and asked for our support for their planned operation in syria. the aim of the operation is to wipe out virtually all the kurdish groups which have so successfully fought daesh, and to which we should be eternally grateful. being a candidate country imposes obligations. eu membership is based on respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary. in this parliament we are tired of seeing president erdoğan's government take a giant leap away from our common values. they cannot be explained away with the failed coup attempt in 2016, and there are no acceptable excuses for invasions of other countries. but we have different views on the accession negotiations. we greens choose to listen to the democrats and the minorities. we want to be tough on the regime, but we don't want to suspend the negotiations. we want them to stay frozen.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the fall of the eu will not be the result of a financial crisis, environmental degradation or war. the eu's downfall will be its lack of action to stem the flow of economic and illegal migrants. by tripling the allocation to the asylum and migration fund, and thus creating more incentives for asylum seekers to come to our member states, which offer more legal pathways and more generous conditions, we are opening up the door to increased migration to the eu. the importance of integration in this fund is talked about, without even mentioning assimilation. we in sweden have for decades been spending enormous sums of taxpayers' money on ineffective projects to try to integrate the huge numbers of migrants who have arrived in my country. some of the integration projects that have been undertaken for newcomers are advances in the labour and housing market, special diets, separate bathing hours for women and men, and the fact that some schools have abandoned some swedish traditions because it can be perceived as negative. as i proposed in the libe committee, the money from the fund should be halved and 85% should be spent on creating measures that drastically reduce migration to the eu and, in addition, ensure that those who are illegally staying within the eu's borders are promptly apprehended and returned to their home countries. those who have the right to stay should be assimilated into our society as soon as possible and bring their customs with them.
member of the commission. – mr president, the brussels iia regulation is a key tool for navigating cross-border legal issues in family matters and providing protection to children. we have proposed to recast this instrument with the goal of preventing children in cross-border situations from ending up taken hostage in long legal disputes. we have also aimed to reduce the length and cost of these procedures. let me add here one point: all decisions concerning children should be covered, notwithstanding the marital status of the parents. as you know, in december last year, after two-and-a-half years of negotiation, the ministers agreed on new rules which will offer better protection of children and will facilitate the procedures for families. let me thank the house for your support for this proposal. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zwiefka, for his excellent cooperation and for the swift procedure for this second opinion. you will have noticed that many of parliament’s requests expressed in the first opinion are included in the compromise text. on the other hand, i know that the text does not include everything that many of you asked for. we must remember that these rules were agreed by unanimity, that the negotiations were not easy and that the text includes significant improvements. in particular, a great achievement is the abolition of the intermediate procedures to obtain cross-border enforcement of all judgments – the so-called exequatur. the new rules on enforcement of judgments will provide more legal certainty. in child return proceedings, i am very pleased that there will be shorter deadlines applied to different stages in the return procedure. the text reinforces the rights of children by ensuring that their perspective, with only a few exceptions, will be heard in the legal proceedings concerning them. the mutual recognition of member states’ practices in this respect will avoid refusal at the stage of recognition or enforcement, thus allowing proper circulation of judgments in the union. furthermore, the compromise will provide clearer rules on the placement of the child in another member state by establishing an autonomous consent procedure for all types of cross-border placement. the rules also ensure more effective cooperation between central authorities, which should continue playing a key role in supporting courts and competent authorities in applying the regulation. i look forward to hearing your views and i trust that there will be strong support for this regulation from the european parliament in the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as european parliament coordinator on children’s rights, i welcome the brussels iia regulation because it strengthens our legal toolbox to protect children. it facilitates the mutual recognition of cross—border decisions in parental responsibility and child abduction. it improves the efficiency of judicial proceedings and gives more legal certainty. for example, when a cross—national couple splits up and one parent returns to the country of origin and brings a child without the other parent concerned, the procedures to return the child are now simplified and accelerated. this regulation affects the daily life of so many international families and children and child abduction has devastating and long—lasting consequences on the child. the longer the child is abducted the greater the impact is on the child’s life and time is key to reduce the harm on the child. therefore, i welcome in particular the following major steps forward: clear time limits for both the decisions taken by the judge and the enforcement, restriction in the number of appeals that generally delayed drastically the return decisions and the obligation of the courts to hear and take into account children’s views in all proceedings concerning them. and this is crucial to uphold the fundamental guiding principle of the best interest of the child as a primary consideration and it also recognises that the child is a right holder. i regret, however, that member states could not agree on common standards regarding hearings proceedings. ensuring that the child’s voice is heard is not enough and this right can even become a burden for the child if it is applied without procedural safeguards and a child friendly practice. as coordinator for the european parliament on children’s rights, handling many cases of parental abduction, i have seen that court hearings can be intimidating, with traumatic effects on children. i therefore call on you, commissioner, on the commission and on the member states to develop common standards and to share best practices on safeguards for children. we need to avoid double victimisation and create a climate of trust and i’m also glad that mediation is given due weight. it often remains the best way to seek long—term, lasting solutions. much more needs to be done to promote alternative dispute resolutions among parents and professionals involved in the cross—border family disputes. and in this respect the coordinator on children’s rights has an important role to assist parents and children in solving faster the disputes and fulfil every child’s right to see and meet both parents.
rapporteur. – madam president, free trade is one of the best ways to lift countries out of poverty: history proves that with all accuracy. let’s take the netherlands, for example, which developed when its citizens became freer to trade in the 17th century; and my own country, sweden, started 100 years of growth in the 1870s when we opened up for trade. and growth miracles are not just a thing of the past: in korea and, right now, china, they would not have happened if those countries had integrated into the world economy, and that is actually what is the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) is all about. i would call it the crown jewel of european trade policy because it tries to link poor countries into the world economy and lift them out of poverty. many countries in the world have gsp programmes, but i believe that we in the european union should be extra proud of our programme. it’s a very generous programme, in its terms, giving value and meaningful tariff cuts to the beneficiaries. it’s also extra generous to the poorest countries of the world that get duty-free, quota-free access to the european markets for everything but arms. the best part of gsp, though, is the gsp+, which grants additional preferences to those countries that strive a little more and try to behave better by implementing, ratifying and making a reality of 27 international conventions on everything from governance to environment and labour rights. it is a tool to extra-incentivise countries, to make sure that they grow and develop in a way that is sustainable and from which all their citizens can benefit. it’s a way to make sure that good governance is respected. we are now reaching the mid term of this programme and we are starting to see what can and should be improved, and this report reflects that. firstly, it needs to become easier for beneficiary countries to source inputs from other countries, and that will require changing rules of origin to get away from the ‘spaghetti bowl’ effect. this programme is about making it easier for countries to integrate into global value chains, not more difficult – as can sometimes be the effect of the current rules of origin. secondly, we should continually improve monitoring on the ground, and here everybody can help – civil society, the international labour organisation, relevant un bodies, the commission, member states, embassies and others. thirdly, we should consider introducing services into the gsp, so that countries can diversify into those areas as well. there is a precedent for this with the least-developed countries (ldc) services waiver. this report represents the priorities for the programme – indicating how it should be even more development orientated – but there are voices which threaten that. the first such voices, i would say, are those seeking to place too many requirements on beneficiary countries. if we place too many requirements – on, for example, labour rights or environmental protection – on these countries they could risk facing the entire eu tariff wall, and that would harm the poorest. these countries are not norway: if they were norway they wouldn’t need this tool. after all, it’s better to be less poor and oppressed than being even poorer and more oppressed. the second type of voice is a classic example of protectionism: of the fact that we are afraid of imports from poorer countries. and, sadly, i think the commission’s decision to impose safeguard duties on rice from cambodia and myanmar is a step in that direction. this report does not reflect any of those fears and i sincerely hope that the next parliament will deal with the next gsp programme without listening to the voices who threaten trade for development.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the comments and input during this debate. we remain firmly committed to trade policy contributing, together with other eu policies, to championing respect for universal and fundamental values. in this respect, gsp is an important trade policy tool, designed for developing countries. by helping to expand exports from beneficiary countries, it has contributed to bringing millions out of poverty. it is also contributing to furthering human rights and sustainable development. the commission, together with the european external action service, will continue to monitor closely, and engage firmly, with beneficiary countries. we will also start examining what improvements can be brought to a new gsp regulation, including many of your clear proposals and requests, so that it can continue to be a force for good. we look forward to working with the european parliament on this high—priority eu trade policy file.
rapporteur. – madam president, i’d like to thank the commissioner and to thank my colleagues for a good debate. i see two main trends in this debate. first, we have those who say we are not seeing the kind of development we want. i urge them – those who claim that we have stagnation, that we don’t have development of poor countries – actually to read the statistics. the fact of the matter is that we’ve never, ever in the history of mankind, had so few people in absolute poverty and there is no causal link to aid, should anybody look for that. the only causal link we can find is with integration into the world economy and, to some extent, with governance. both of these are things we are addressing with precisely this tool. the second area, on which we have had long discussions, time and time again, in the committee, is the question of what we do with those that don’t behave. there are people here who give the impression that we don’t do anything, but that’s not true. first of all, sri lanka is one example of the fact that that you do actually lose your preference if you don’t behave, and what we now are doing with myanmar is also a proof of that. however, we have to remember one thing: when countries are kicked out of the system, the system doesn’t deliver anymore. this is, to some extent, a question about what we see and what we don’t see. we see, in the history books, things that happen, but we never see things that do not happen – as the result of dialogue, of pressure or of this tool. i would claim that we’ve improved livelihoods, and the situation in terms of observance of human rights, for millions throughout this world by stopping things from happening, because people want to stay in the system. if we kick people out too quickly we lose that possibility. therefore, i urge my colleagues, let’s be tough, let’s strengthen monitoring, but let’s not punish those already oppressed by making them poorer and kicking them out before we’ve used every trick in this regulation to pressure those governments that are behaving badly into behaving better.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is well known that the persian regime in iran does not respect human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of association, environmental commitment, which are self-evident to us but which can become synonymous with torture and the death penalty. in 2018, 273 people were executed in iran. 2018 was also a difficult year for women in iran. pictures and video clips were spread around the world, showing women across the country taking off their headscarves, putting them on a stick and waving them as a flag in protest against the compulsory wearing of the hijab. it's an issue that has become a symbol of women's rights above the law. many were arrested and others have been sentenced to prison. according to amnesty international, 112 women activists have been detained. many of them testify to abuse and torture. it is often the women who are in the forefront of protests and demands for change in the country. it's a fight that for some ends in prison or worse. it is therefore the duty of the outside world to support the women who are fighting for the right to live freely. we cannot stand by and watch this happen. nasrin sotoudeh has been sentenced to 33 years in prison and 148 lashes. with the five years she was previously sentenced to, the total length of her prison sentence is a shocking 38 years.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in a few days, we're going to change the clocks back to daylight saving time. this will be the second time in the last six months that we've changed our clocks. this time change, which we do twice a year, has been going on for decades. the purpose of the time change was to save energy. but that's not the case anymore. with new technology and other lifestyle changes, we're not making any money from the transition. we're not saving energy. i have been a member of the european parliament for ten years and during these years i have received countless e-mails and letters and calls from people on a wide range of issues. but one of the questions that has come up periodically is that of feeling bad about the time change. those affected are affected differently. for some, it's not that big of a deal. for others, it's a very strong reaction. it is particularly vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly, the chronically ill and groups already suffering from physical and perhaps sometimes mental problems who are affected by the changeover. in view of this, it is very reasonable that we should review the system of seasonal changeover. it doesn't save any energy. it is likely to have a negative effect on many people. starting with petitions and citizens' initiatives from people in different eu countries, the european parliament has been able to hear the views and experiences of many citizens. indeed, no other topic has touched and engaged so many eu citizens - ordinary eu citizens who are not deeply involved in politics - as the changeover. a lot of people are getting in touch. they do so by letter to us in the european parliament, they did so by means of a survey carried out by the commission last year. millions of europeans are at stake. and then it's actually time for us as elected officials to listen to those reactions. i have spent the last six months, in connection with the changeover to winter time, working on a proposal to abolish the clock. it has since been prepared and voted on by seven of parliament's various committees, which also shows, among other things, the number of areas affected by this change of times. the proposal now is that we abolish the time change in the fall of 2021. it sends a very clear message to citizens that we have listened and at the same time we also send a clear message to stakeholders that our single market should have plenty of time to adjust and not be negatively affected. it must be done in an organised way, this transition, so that we continue to have a well-functioning internal market in transport and a lot of other things. the abolition means that eu member states will have to decide which permanent standard time they will choose to have thereafter. of course, this must also be done in an organised and coordinated way. of course, we cannot create a patchwork of different times in the eu. that is why i am also proposing that the member states should cooperate with each other in choosing the time and that they should inform each other and the commission by the late spring of 2020. but away with the unnecessary time-shift. i hope everyone listens and votes yes.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. some of my colleagues in the house seem to wonder whether the commission has nothing more important to do than to ask whether we should continue to reset our clocks twice a year. they clearly have not understood the real importance of this issue. more than 4.5 million citizens across europe have spoken out, and a large majority want europe to end seasonal time changes. in addition, there is scientific evidence that there are great health benefits to having the same time of day year round. every time we put the clock forward, the number of heart attacks, suicides and traffic accidents increases the next day. now some are worried that the adoption of this directive will lead to a patchwork of different time zones, but thanks to our green amendments we are ensuring that there is a coordination mechanism to minimise that risk. this proposal is well thought out, accurate and delivers what europe is asking for: a harmonised approach to abolishing the time change.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you very much to all who have taken the opportunity to think freely and loudly on this issue. it is an extremely exciting debate, one of the most interesting i have listened to and participated in in the last few years at least in the european parliament. that says something about commitment, because it's a very understandable question. it is also a matter of the fact that the committee on transport, which is such a practical committee, would of course never come up with an adventurous proposal which would in any way disrupt the internal market. i don't know, i'm an old minister of culture from the beginning, if we had given the task to the culture committee it might have been a little risky, but the transport committee is a committee that stands with both feet on the ground. this is about removing the time shift that doesn't provide the energy saving effect that we thought about a long time ago. we are now going back to an arrangement where, as usual, the countries must coordinate. and then we have a time zone, we have a temporal coherence, which means we continue to function without interruption. this is not a revolution, nor is it federalism, but it is a very practical measure which will perhaps save money as well, but which will be good for people's health and that is why we are committed to this issue. so i want to thank you all for an incredibly exciting debate. it has been very valuable to listen to it. i feel like this could be something really, really good. we might come up with some great ideas in other areas if we can be as creative as we were tonight. so thank you all very much.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in sweden, there are about 8,000 undocumented immigrants waiting to be deported or to stay. they're stuck in a game that's unworthy of them at the highest level. when the social democrats needed to show generosity, they talked about a sweden that has no borders at all. and then, of course, the young people were drawn to it. then the election passed, and the same social democrats realized that sweden has many borders. then they had to stop the bleeding of voters to the extreme right and then they came close to denying these young people permanent residence. and now, once again, you have to be tough, and then you blame your poor electoral performance on these very young people and you deport them, even though they have made a life for themselves with their host families. this is unworthy. to play with young people's lives like this is truly shameful. sure, the kids came themselves, that's true. but we political parties, especially the social democrats, have played with them in a way just to win a few percent in the polls. it's a disgrace and it must end soon.
madam president, i would like to talk about the ridiculous conspiracy theory advanced by the corporate lobby, which is that those of us who want a free and open internet are in the pay of – or have been fooled or hoodwinked by – google and facebook. that is just tosh! we have been fighting against the internet giants for years. we have been fighting for data protection. we have been fighting for people’s privacy. we have been fighting against their monopolistic tendencies. i would like to hit google and facebook where it hurts. i would like them to pay their taxes. i’m fighting for a digital tax. we’re fighting for strong e-privacy regulation, and we’re fighting for them to take editorial responsibility for what they’re doing. this is not the right thing to do. i don’t trust google and facebook, but i do trust all the experts who say that articles 11 and 13 are bad for the internet and should not be allowed to cause collateral damage. (applause)
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. gender equality is mentioned in every other document in the eu context. but let me be clear: when the going gets tough, the institutions all too often fail to give women the rights they deserve. it is not enough to make beautiful declarations if we are serious about our feminist struggle for equality, and we are serious about this in the committee on equality. then the money must come with it. the eu budget today does not sufficiently fund gender equality and women's rights. budgeting from a feminist perspective still shines with its absence, unfortunately, commissioner. the evaluation of different interventions and of the impact on gender equality is simply not done. it's 2019 and this is not gonna hold. our committee wants to see more money in the eu budget for women's rights, more money for women's human rights and fighting violence against women, and more money for sexual and reproductive health and rights both within and outside the eu. and we want guarantees that women get a bigger share of the eu budget. because if you're serious about gender equality, then the money has to come with it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. environmental goals are obviously good to have. but we must also be careful to ensure that environmental objectives are realistic, that is, that there is always a realistic chance for manufacturers to develop the technology. there is no need to go above and beyond just to get there. then we have failed. we cannot meet the requirements. i therefore believe that there must also be agreement with the manufacturers on what is technically possible or not. i drive an electric car myself. it's working great. i'm super happy. but i live in the country, and i think that's where the electric car is an option for the future. in the big cities, there are too many problems with the charging infrastructure. there are not enough charging points and therefore the electric car will never be an option in the big city. there'll be constant worries about how to charge the car. i'm doing great. at home at my villa i can plug in, that's no problem, but in the cities i don't think that's going to be an option and then we have to be able to release cars that are environmentally friendly. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) that's right. that's absolutely true and that's also why i have a regular car too, with an internal combustion engine. the electric car works for a certain part of my needs, but it doesn't work for all my needs. that is why we must also ensure that we can keep the normal cars. the electric car doesn't work for everyone, that's how it is. it works great for me. i have a daily driving requirement of about 70 kilometers, and that's where the electric car works. especially in winter, the range is down to about 90 to 100 kilometers on a full charge -- that's actually the reality of it -- so i wouldn't be able to do it with just an electric car. we must therefore also ensure that there are alternatives to renewable fuels, i.e. where we produce environmentally friendly fuels, simply as an alternative to petrol and diesel. the electric car is not the solution to all problems, but to some of them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. sweden is one of the countries in the world where the economy is most dependent on the automotive industry. we know how important it is to create the right conditions for a viable and more sustainable automotive industry, both today and in the future. that is precisely why we swedish social democrats, both here in the european parliament and through our government in the council, have pushed for such high climate ambitions, to reduce car emissions more than today. we would have liked to see emissions fall even further, but this is an important step along the way, which we are voting on now. it is thanks to the socialist group and our rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, and her hard work and skill that we now have these new rules which will benefit both the climate and human health. we social democrats will stand up for this tomorrow and vote in favour of the stricter emission standards, both for the sake of the climate, for the sake of human health and for an industry that is strong for the future. a sustainable europe is needed. it's the vision we have for our future.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. as we now adopt the new ipa iii programme for the accession countries, it is important not to repeat the mistakes of the past. in the best of worlds, the funds are being used correctly, but sometimes ipa funds have ended up in a strange gray area, such as the armored vehicles and patrol boats that were delivered to turkey to effectively stop the influx of migrants from syria. although the vehicles, according to the answers we have received from the commissioner before, were not armed, i think it is remarkable that ipa funds which are intended to support reforms and build the capacity of countries in the accession process are being used to buy these vehicles in a country like turkey, which is in constant conflict with its citizens and its neighbours. we now want ipa iii to focus more on strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, reforming the judiciary and public administration, respect for human rights, including minorities, gender equality, workers' rights and non-discrimination. it is also important that ipa funds can be withdrawn from a state that is acting in breach of the eu's fundamental values and instead be paid directly to civil society, to organisations working in support of human rights and fundamental freedoms - in other words, conditional support with greater requirements and better control.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, it has been five years since the illegal occupation of crimea, and during those five years our response has not been loud enough. why? i don’t know – because of our need for russian gas? because of our fear of russia? i don’t know why, but i do know that it poses a real question here. how would we react if it happened in the eu? can my distinguished colleagues from the baltic states be 100% assured that we will protect them if they are attacked? this is exactly where the kremlin wants us to be – in this position of starting to doubt our possibility to defend ourselves – provoking us, playing games with us, trying to split us and weaken our response. so let me spell out the facts. since many years ago, we have seen an increasingly aggressive russia. georgia, eastern ukraine and crimea are showing us without any uncertainty that the russian federation is having no second thoughts about changing the borders in europe by other means than peaceful if they can. and that leaves us with the just one possibility: we must act together and with firmness, because all other answers – negotiation appeasement, some kind of compromise – will be perceived in the kremlin as a weakness. so it is time to send a loud and clear message: enough is enough. this has gone too far already, and we have to start working on putting pressure on russia to leave the occupied territories, both in georgia in eastern ukraine and in crimea.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what is happening today is a great tragedy, with large parts of the transport industry in europe waiting for us here in this house to take a decision on the matter. what we're doing now is we're failing the transport workers. we betray them to the benefit of capital. because that's what it's all about. it is about the fact that a very large number of people in this house are voting for other cars to be used in other countries. i, for example, as a swede, cannot accept having 3 000 to 4 000 foreign-registered lorries in my country, which are constantly using the capital rules to drive domestic transport. it kills the domestic market and that cannot be the purpose of being a member of an eu cooperation: to give up your domestic market, because eventually all countries will be faced with this problem. we have to get this business back on track.
madam president, i would like to thank you. reducing the amount of plastic, especially in our oceans, is very important: 80 to 85 percent of the trash we find in the ocean is plastic after all. but i think it's important to have realistic expectations of what this proposal will actually mean. we're not going to stop seeing these horrific images of plastic islands being created in the oceans or beaches being filled up around the world. the reason for this is that europe accounts for only a few percent of the plastic that is produced and for an even smaller share of the plastic that actually ends up in our oceans. most of it is spread and created in asia. just five countries in asia account for 60 percent of all plastic. there are certainly some in this house who will say that this means that europe has no responsibility. i'd like to say the opposite. we have a great responsibility, a very great responsibility, to lead the way. but then we have to do it right. then we must make sure we ban the right kind of products. now i was afraid that we would ban paper cups by mistake, because they contained a little, a little plastic. that would be wrong. focusing on what's really replaceable and what doesn't have any reasonable alternatives, that's what we have to do.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since kosovo declared its independence in february 2008, more than 100 countries have recognised it, and the international court of justice in the hague has ruled that its independence is not contrary to international law. stabilisation and association agreements with the eu have entered into force in all western balkan countries, including kosovo. yet five of our member states have chosen not to recognise it: spain, greece, cyprus, romania and slovakia. kosovo is currently the only country in the region that does not have visa facilitation to the eu. the roadmap that started with no less than 95 criteria is now complete. they've done their part. it's up to us now. i fully agree with the rapporteur that it must be a fair and merit-based approach and not a political bargain that forms the basis of our position. there is nothing to prevent members from those countries which have not yet recognised kosovo from voting in favour of visa facilitation. i say that because it happened in committee. i and the green group welcome the proposal.
mr president, there is one thing i don’t understand here in this discussion, we are often criticising some countries for not fulfilling their obligations, for saying one thing and doing the other, and rightly so. but in the case of kosovo, we are behaving like these countries and how can we do that? i don’t really understand. we have set certain conditions and requirements for kosovo to fulfil. these requirements were set by all countries, including countries that do not recognise kosovo. kosovo has fulfilled them. the commission evaluated this and said they are indeed fulfilled. and now the answer from our side is nothing. this is degrading our credibility. we could have imagined every possible condition to put in front of kosovo. we could have waited. we set some conditions and they have fulfilled them. now it is time for us to deliver our part. i strongly urge the council to end this circus and allow visa liberalisation for kosovo’s citizens because this is degrading be credibility of the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone has the right to drink water when they are thirsty and the water should be safe to drink. this applies to all of us, whether we are homeless or homeless, whether we are in the minority or the majority, whether we are in the slums or the big city. but today, there are still groups in europe who lack access to clean water. this is unacceptable. it is especially important to me that the water we drink is safe. it must not contain dangerous chemicals that are harmful to our health. this requires better measurement, but also strict limits for chemicals. the health of the people must come first. this is particularly true of hormonal disruptors. we know that these substances are leading to more people getting diabetes, other dangerous diseases, or difficulty having children. of course, we in europe - yes, all over the world - must ensure that we are not exposed to such dangerous substances in our drinking water. parliament has a strong negotiating position here which we cannot touch. i know that there are several member states which want to soften the regulatory framework. it is important that parliament stands up for safety, for people's health, for clean water. however, it is also important to take into account in the negotiations that geographical differences may be different in different countries. it is therefore good that parliament's position in these negotiations gives individual countries some flexibility to ensure that the best, most practical solutions are found to achieve the objectives. clean water should be a given. everyone should be able to drink water if they're thirsty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can freely admit that this whole database thing was something new to me when i got this assignment. i'm an immigration lawyer by training, and i've been assigned the part about borders and visas. i'm looking at the bill with my immigration-legal glasses, of course. in general, i would say that the proposal, as i see it, is nothing but another step in the trend of doing everything we can to prevent people from travelling to europe. but more surveillance and control will not solve the problems of forcing people to leave their home countries. on the other hand, we are putting our own values, which are based on fundamental freedoms and rights, at risk by repeatedly adopting legislation that erodes respect for human rights and our own fundamental values. migrants continue to arrive, but our fear of them means that we are violating both international and domestic human rights and data protection rules. we equate migrants with potential criminals. although the purpose of the regulation is completely contrary to what i believe, we entered into the discussions on interoperability with a very open mind, because in the best of worlds it could even be good. but i soon realized that both proposals went far beyond what i could accept. this includes the so-called common identity repository, which romero mentioned earlier, with biometric and biographical information, which will be the main database for all other databases. that's going too far. in particular, when the commission was floating on the issue and, despite repeated attempts, was unable to convince us that there was a need and that it was necessary and proportionate. it's not like the end justifies the means. we have data protection rules to protect personal privacy and fundamental freedoms. i agree with the analysis that romero made earlier, that this is a monster database and this monster database is not acceptable, as i see it.
madam president, i would like to ask you, and to ask colleagues, to condemn in the strongest way possible the attack by air strikes yesterday in sana’a, yemen, against a hospital where children, aid workers and civilians died. it was a hospital supported by save the children. it is in total breach of humanitarian law, international law and human rights. i will ask you, madam president, to condemn the attack and to ask the coalition partners led by saudi arabia to respect international law. we cannot continue to turn our back on the plight of the people of yemen, which is undergoing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank you for your address and i think i should start by welcoming prime minister löfven to brussels. this is the second time i've seen the prime minister in this context. the first time was in strasbourg, the second time here. i want to start by saying again how sorry i am that the prime minister is choosing to stand and speak english. we are sitting in a room full of interpreters, who are interpreting into all kinds of languages, and i think that swedish is such a small language that it deserves to be heard in this house. i know that the prime minister was criticised for this after strasbourg but i see that he has not taken any of the criticism seriously. as usual, after a while, the discussion turns to the fact that there are terrible people in this house. there are terrible people who want to tear it down. there are terrible people out there who want to destroy. i'm one of them, of course. because i have a different view of european union cooperation or european cooperation than the prime minister has. it's like if you have a different view of a political work here, then you should be stamped. then you'll have to be labelled. you're supposed to be painted as something you're not at all, and the only valid opinions are those coming from the social democrats and the prime minister. anything else is labeled extremist and populist. then the hypocrisy is complete when the party's, in fact the prime minister's own representatives in the house, stand and demonstrate outside this hall for a convicted murderer and terrorist. it wasn't that long ago. the social democrats want to transfer the right of negotiation between the social partners in sweden to the eu. the social pillar is a great threat to the swedes. you're even a former trade unionist and now you want foreign politicians to decide our relations in sweden. never forget, stefan, it was you who opened that door at the gothenburg summit. we will remind everyone that it was you who compromised swedish equality, family policy, the labour market, and chose to put it in the hands of foreign politicians. when the social democrats cannot even fix the mess at home in sweden, i see no reason to hope that you will be able to fix the mess in europe. it is time for a new era in europe. it is time for closer and more direct cooperation than exists today.
prime minister of sweden. – mr president, first vice-president of the commission, mr dombrowski, yes, we like to use the word ‘lagom’. sometimes i do not believe that we are so ‘lagom’, but we do think the balance is important. i think that balance is also important in the european context, in which we meet and have different opinions, but we also need to recognise that no one has ‘the’ single answer: we have to balance and compromise. compromise is not as bad as some people think. it’s a good way forward, never forgetting values of course: these are, as i said in my statement, what should steer all that we’re doing. several of you have mentioned social rights. i will touch upon that issue, which, yes, i think it very important to address. for many people today, not least the members that i used to work for when i was a trade union leader, the transition of the labour market, of the global economy, is scary, and that is because they feel insecure about what will happen. i know i strongly believe in a social market economy because we need a market economy that has the best incentives for raising productivity, giving us a greater possibility of prosperity, but that change, that transformation, also needs to be brought about in a socially just way, otherwise people will rise up and say no, we will not be in favour of change. and if we have a workforce that is not in favour of change, then we will slow down in our economic development. so this is about a morally right thing, but is also economically smart. those who totally reject the social perspective of the european union or economic development are making a huge mistake. now we can combine that and we have a treaty to adhere to as well. so the pillar of social rights has not changed the treaty. before and after the social pillar rights, the decision-making is exactly the same, but what we’re saying is that we should cooperate on these 20 very important principles within three themes. one is to make sure that people get a job in the first place, given that the unemployed would be the most desperate people: the longer the unemployment, the greater the desperation. the second is what kind of job do we want? do we want jobs in which workers are supposed to compete with one another with lower wages and bad working conditions? is that the future labour market? no, it’s not. so therefore it is in our mutual interest to make sure that things also move in the right direction with the national decision-making. nothing has changed. and the third is social security in a broader sense. is that too much to ask? this european union, in my opinion, is made for the people. the market is very important for us. creating this huge market gives us a possibility to compete with china, with the united states, with india and all the big players. but that other purpose must be to improve people’s daily lives. (applause) otherwise, we’re on the wrong path. so i think that we can definitely work with social rights in a balanced way too. regarding the budget, mr commissioner, i guess that the discussion needs to continue; i see that we have certain differences here. but let me just explain the swedish position. during 2015 we received 163 000 asylum-seekers. not everybody gets to stay. some need to go back because there are no grounds for their asylum. but we have ahead of us now huge investments in our country: in schools, in eldercare, in our health sector. i’m telling the swedish people, look, we can handle this. we’ve now reduced immigration. we can handle this. those who can stay in our country will be integrated in our society as soon as possible, but they need somewhere to live. they need a job, eldercare, everything. we can handle that. but when i say that, i cannot also tell them, look, at least 50% of the space we have for future reforms needs to go to brussels in increased fees to the european union. that is not possible. we are eager to work to develop the european union and do our best; we will contribute as best we can. but what i have just said is impossible because it would mean that the legitimacy of the european union would be ruined. i cannot even deliver that answer to the people. so we will do our part, but that too needs to be in balance. when it comes to mr weber and the values, yeah, let’s look into how to strengthen that and make sure that the values are adhered to. i guess we agree upon that. we need to make sure that they are adhered to, otherwise we will weaken the european union. so i can’t say in detail what it requires, but, yes, we are interested in looking into it. several have touched upon the climate and environment. i share most of the positions and the policies. once again it’s so crucial now for us to show young people that we have understood. we understand what is happening. not only do we understand, but we will act to prevent a catastrophe. this is our duty, but it’s also our opportunity, and that’s a fine thing. we need to turn the climate, the combat against climate change, from a burden into an opportunity, because this will provide the new jobs. the new technology is here and that is what we are going to develop. so we’re going to create new jobs and more wealth and combat climate change, and that’s why we also need to talk to people to show them that this is not a burden. we’re going to do this together. we’re not going to let you have the burden as an individual, weʼre going to do it together and we are going to be fine. we’re going to show our children and our grandchildren that we understood what was happening and we did something about it. peter lundgren. nu ska jag prata svenska, peter lundgren. jag pratar gärna engelska också. men jag ska prata svenska. jag nämnde ingenting om hemska människor. det var du som gjorde det. jag respekterar alla människor. alla människor ska respekteras. men jag kommer att bekämpa åsikter som går tvärs emot mina värderingar. jag vet inte vad du refererar till med en retorik som jag då ska använda, men om det är när sverigedemokraternas företrädare säger att judar och samer väl inte kan vara svenskar, då reagerar jag. och det kommer att fortsätta göra. för jag tycker det är långt, långt... det är inte i enlighet med våra värderingar och vi har dessutom en strid ström utav sverigedemokratiska företrädare som gång på gång på gång avslöjas med den här typen av uttalanden och statements. sen är det dessvärre så att era rötter är i vitmaktrörelsen. det är inte så länge sedan. så, så länge de här värderingarna inte respekteras så kommer jag att bekämpa de åsikterna. men människor ska respekteras. det är viktigt för mig. mr verhofstadt, on migration. yes, you’re right: that is the problem right now – that we cannot reach a decision. we need to reach that decision. we’ve been pushing for it for a long, long time, for years now, ever since i started almost as a prime minister. so that is what we’re struggling for. and the problem is not the council. the problem is that we have a few of our colleagues that do not want to share that responsibility. that’s the problem, and as long as we have that problem, we will be stuck. but we also need to find a solution. so, let’s work on that solution. we talked to mr weber earlier, and we need to see what is a way forward, because we cannot have this being dragged along for another five years. that’s impossible. regarding spotify, just to clarify one thing. spotify also has an office in stockholm. it is already there. but there are a lot of swedish unicorns that need to grow. and they grow globally, and some of the activities need to take part also on the other side of the atlantic. but i guess we agree on the point that the services market as well as the digital market need to be much more efficient, and that is why we are pushing for that. in the last european council that we had just a few weeks ago, we were at 17 countries that wrote to the commission and said we need to speed up this now and implement what we already have decided. so, in general, i agree we need to do much, much more. to dennis de jong on swedish migration, the point is, as i said, we received 163 000 asylum-seekers in 2015. we needed to handle that situation. it was not sustainable. that’s the simple truth. therefore, we changed our legislation to the same level as the european union in general. now, we need to stick to that legislation and, at the same, time work with this common european legislation so that, if we have that in place, all the member states can also change their national legislation, and then we will have sustainable legislation for all of us. but once again, i think we need to make sure that we also share the responsibility. so that’s an issue for us. you were also asking how we create jobs. on the one hand, that’s why the market is so important – the huge market, because that will give our companies fast access to 500 million people. that’s a good thing, and that is why we need to implement the services market, make sure that works, the digital and all these things, but then to invest together: invest in innovation, invest in training, invest in those things that actually create jobs so that we always, constantly can fill new jobs, new jobs, new jobs, because old jobs will go, so we need to keep the pace with creating the new jobs. i think we can do that, and not least during that transformation, to make sure that people can follow at that pace. we need training, we need education, and this is a really important mechanism for making sure that we can create jobs and, by that, trust in the future. when it comes to arms build-up, there are two paths we need to follow. one is, as the prime minister of sweden, i need to tell the people that we are doing what we can to make sure that we can handle any military threats in a good way. i cannot say: ‘we’ll see what happens’. so that’s important. but on the other hand, perhaps the most important thing (i think in that sense, i think we can agree) we can do as leaders is to decrease tensions. so we need to work with diplomacy. we are active right now also in sweden working for more peace, to make sure that we can reduce the number of nuclear arms, for example. we need to have the debate that we are having today because i cannot see the reason why the ultimate protection would be arms that can destroy the earth. because that’s what nuclears are all about, and that is not so smart. so we need to work on that together, but, until we’re there, i need also to show the swedish people that we’re working with their security. so, ska keller on social issues. we have the treaty, as i said. we’re moving this step by step, and that is why i work hard and, once again, i do also commend commission president jean-claude juncker and everybody else who has worked with it (i guess you also worked with it), so we have taken this step. but let's see what the next step is. but we need to make sure that social security is something that people in our member state can say: yes, this is for me as well. on mobility, you mentioned trains specifically. we are working on that right now, also in sweden. how do we invest in such a way that our trains can move in a better way than they do now? but also the ticket situation, because you’re right, it’s too difficult now to travel, and it shouldn’t be difficult. going by train should be easy and accessible. so we need to work with that. lastly, ets. you know what our government did? we actually cancelled allowances. the government before us sold them, made money on them. we cancelled, them and if you cancel those, the price will go up. so that’s what we did, at the expense of the swedish taxpayers, and that’s what we think was right to do. the moralists and the moral question: well, sometimes it’s a complex world, but on migration i would like to say this: we need to stick to the three-pillar strategy that was chosen. first, work to improve conditions in our neighbourhood so that people don’t have to make these very dangerous journeys in the first place. second, make sure that our external border is functioning. and third, make sure that we have a shared responsibility between the member states within our union. if that works, if we get that in place, we will have a sustainable migration policy. mr vilimsky, the climate: we need to be active, but the reactor in slovakia, i cannot comment on the slovak reactor. every member state needs to decide by themselves what kind of energy mix they will use. there is an important european perspective also given the energy union, but we not have any mandate – the different member states decide on their own what kind of energy mix they want.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! welcome to the club. i would like to say that it was a good speech about what europe is for and what we want. now the prime minister might be wondering: what's the catch? the problem is that there was very little concrete about the paths we should take. because that's where the big problem and the challenge is. how do we deal with the threat from russia? how do we strengthen the common foreign and security policy? no one is questioning the need for a european social policy. the difference is that you and your government opened up for it to be decided in this house not in the swedish parliament and other national parliaments. you often say that this is just a figure of speech when we say this, but you are listening to the debate here, and i can show you 150 pages of legislation that directly refer to the social pillar. that is where the risk is, because it creates contradictions. but the big question i want to raise with you is how do we protect the freedoms and rights of the union? i would like you to speak as much about the abuses of your social democratic friends in the area of freedom and rights and the rule of law as you do about others. romania, slovakia, malta, because if you're not prepared to talk about them, then you devalue yourself to party politics and that benefits orban and it benefits those who are allowed to do the cheating quietly, like the romanian government. you'll have an opportunity here today because they're here in the house.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, prime minister, and welcome to the european parliament. in the european parliament we have 20 swedish members, as the prime minister knows. several of them make quite a big impression. cecilia wikström is chairing the important conference of presidents and has delivered a solid majority on migration. your party comrade marita ulvskog is very often the leader of the empl committee. we may not always agree with her, but we often admire her work. so does my colleague gunnar hökmark, who is on the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on industry. i myself have focused on emission allowances, agriculture and animal welfare issues during my term of office. the swedes have often been able to form a majority and i believe that all of us in our party groups have more influence than our numbers. but that is why i am a little concerned when i look at the attendance of the prime minister's ministers at the council meetings. sweden has a key position in european cooperation to make this work and to deliver the things the prime minister so deservedly promised. but what can we do to increase the presence of the prime minister's ministers at council meetings so that we really live up to our full potential?
mr president, i would like to thank you. every year, swedish taxpayers lose 40 billion kronor (about $4 billion) on tax evasion by large corporations. i'd like to ask the prime minister why your government is blocking several eu laws that would crack down on tax evasion? the money is needed for school and health care. but your party has blocked the proposal for public country-by-country reporting for more than two years. i have asked the minister of finance in three articles why the ss block the eu's work against tax evasion. she never answered. i wonder why? could it be that the social democrats want to help swedish companies avoid taxes in other countries? in that case, it's not okay. is it reasonable that a government that blocks the eu's work on tax evasion cannot even give a clear explanation as to why? now that you're in the european parliament, stefan löfven, i wonder if this is my lucky day. will you answer the question why the social democrats are blocking the eu's work on tax evasion?
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, the place where all the eu's treasures are made. because that's what you said when we warned you that you were moving the power of the swedish labour market to brussels. you said it was a crust. your comrades promised that there would be no legislation. now you're standing there with the legislation coming on the air. you promised to protect swedish mercenaries. you have now effectively transferred the power over the swedish labour market to brussels, and the most strange thing is that now that the legislation is coming, you are doing everything to undermine it, minimise it, avoid it, delay it, your comrades here are voting, casting their votes. they vote no. the lo is sitting in my room asking me to help them stop legislation that you've been pushing. it's just so weird, and i don't know if you understand the impression it's making. i have comrades who ask me, why is sweden behaving so strangely? don't you realize you're embarrassing us by acting so weird?
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister stefan löfven! welcome to brussels. welcome to the parliament which, as of tomorrow, will take over the decision-making power on parental insurance from the swedish parliament and the other national parliaments. welcome to the parliament which may in future take further decisions in the field of parental insurance. the result of the decision tomorrow, and in the future, is that sweden's families with children are now at risk of facing further restrictions on their freedom and flexibility. as the prime minister knows, there are a wide variety of nationalities in parliament, many of whom have a different view of family life and the rules than the swedish. as parliament seeks compromise before it decides, other countries will therefore have a decisive influence on the everyday life of swedish families with children. when the prime minister at the social summit in gothenburg in the autumn of 2017 took the initiative for the social pillar, the prime minister promised on oath that it would not be followed by any legislation. we did, however, warn of the consequences of bringing these issues to the european level. these warnings were unfortunately ignored by the prime minister. so in this debate on the future, i have a simple but important question for the prime minister: is the prime minister satisfied that tomorrow, on your initiative, in the autumn of 2017, in gothenburg, parliament will take decisions on parental insurance?
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! sweden's foreign minister margot wallström used to say that you know if you are swedish at a meeting in brussels because they often start by saying "in sweden we have a system". all too often, swedish, especially social democrats, sound like this. not very successful, i'd say. but when we're at our best, we can inspire. but it depends on us succeeding. because charity starts at home and many of the issues that are most important right now, which you yourself bring up, we're not, unfortunately, a role model, we're hardly inspiring anyone. working borders, how are we going to inspire anyone when the commission is condemning our own border protection? the fight against terror, when other countries are afraid that isis returnees will leave sweden and do terrible things in their countries. cross-border crime, when there is a concern that organised crime from malmö will spill over the öresund or growth, where sweden has the lowest per capita growth in the eu. words are important, but action is even more important and if we are to succeed in changing and inspiring the eu, then we need much better than what the prime minister is delivering today.
mr president, first of all, i think it’s quite obvious that the russian energy policy is a part of its powerful reaction against europe. we have disinformation, we have money laundering. we have laundering of money coming from the business of oil and natural gas in russia and we have the disinformation and we have the warfare in ukraine. of course we need to face up to this challenge, but we don’t even need to think about those challenges in order to see that it is quite natural that we shall have the same rules for the dominant actors on the internal market for energy as well as for the smaller actors. gazprom will, with nord stream, be a main supplier with nearly 30% of their natural gas going to europe. why shouldn’t we apply the same rules regarding competition? how to decouple production from distribution as for all other actors on the european energy market? i haven’t heard anyone who sees any big problems with this. why should we see it as some sort of diplomatic action? we apply the same rules to everyone – to the big producers and the big distributors and the small producers and the small distributors. i can’t understand why there should be any problems but i hear from the gue group, the genetic defence of moscow is always there, and the extreme right, which is not at all right. they’re all extreme. they are against it all the time. what i would like to say to the commissioner is: see to it that you use this legislation. see to it that germany does the negotiations, as it shall, and see to it that we can get an outcome which makes the european gas market transparent and full of competition. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i never ignore mr langen. he is a very wise man, and he can sometimes take arguments. the fact that he and i sometimes have different views, that is because you can have different views. but i’m quite convinced – and i’m willing to defend mr langen – when it is about standing up to russia or standing up to anyone else. we might have our discussions, but we stand united towards the threats against europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is good that we are starting a proper discussion on eu relations with china and increasing the pressure for a proper trade relationship. there are many challenges to be met. it is high time that the eu and china move forward in the trade and investment talks. we need to recognize the important role china is playing in the transition to a green economy. the eu must be involved in this and put pressure on it. this is where our companies need to be much better placed to offer smart green solutions. we should not respond to uncivil protectionism with more protectionism. at the same time, we should not be naive about investments that could affect our own security. we must continue to press the wto for china to start playing by the rules and to recognise the value of a functioning international trading system. it's good for china, and it's good for all of us. we must bring china into the pursuit of the un's global goals. at the same time, we must be extremely clear with china on respect for human rights. the challenges are many and it is important that eu countries speak with one voice in these contexts, when it comes to the eu-china relationship.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the importance of a seamless and problem—free customs union cannot be overestimated. to achieve it, we need to strengthen and deepen cross—border cooperation in the countries. as the volumes of customs are increasing the burden, it is necessary to have cooperation and the burden of that cooperation has to be eased and eradicated. without it, we will never achieve our ambition of a customs union free from both physical and practical obstacles. therefore, i welcome these efforts to improve cooperation, both in terms of money and equipment. by modernising custom procedures, we will make sure that goods can flow more freely and efficiently, achieving more efficient trading with the rest of the world and throughout the union, and bringing benefits to our citizens and consumers through cheaper and safer goods. given the importance of this file, it is regrettable that the council did not manage to bring this file to the end. this forced us to seek to conclude the first reading and secure our position in a future negotiation. but, despite this setback, i believe that the progress we made set us on a good path to achieve our aim of a seamless customs union that brings benefits to european citizens, businesses and consumers. it is great step forward, ensuring that european goods continue to circulate even more freely and, through that, increase growth and enrich our societies.
madam president, it’s my pleasure to see that this chamber will hopefully manage to get into this scheme and help europeans get into the pan-european pension schemes in a good way. today, selling and trading goods and some services in the single market is normal but as this file shows, when it comes to capital, there is still some way to go. bringing in this pan-european personal pension product will make it easier to save, and the private pension plan will get you a pension in countries where this is not possible today, and to use it without any problems if you move or go to another country. i believe this is great news for european citizens. it is not a mandatory scheme, it is a third pillar, it is voluntary, it does not replace existing schemes, it just complements them, and it will help both consumers and providers. so i don’t see the problem in this. it has taken decades, i know, almost a decade to get it done, and i notice the resistance from both the financial industry in some countries, and from some countries, but for me this is the best proof that this is good for competition and its consequences for the citizens as well. what does it do? it will make it possible for the citizen who cannot get a decent pension in some countries today to get one – it will make it more flexible, portable, easy, comprehensible and, surely, cheaper for most of the european countries and for the citizens in them. this is what the single market and the eu can do for them. i think we should be proud.
there are those in this house who say this is unnecessary legislation. however, the first maternity leave directive was adopted in 1992, when there were only a few eu member states and society was quite different. against this background, it is indeed time that this legislation was modernised. what we're voting on today is a fundamental right to a parental insurance policy that works. we also know that when fathers are allowed to be at home with their children, they take on more responsibility for the home, and this is also a matter of destiny. too few women in the eu have the opportunity to work, and we have a huge need for skilled workers. we know that women's participation in the labour market is a huge economic engine and we have to really get that engine going. a more equal society is simply good for families, for individuals, for children and for the economy. it's time to take the next step.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the plight of the children born of terrorists from isis and daesh. some of them are in prison, detained in syria and iraq in terrible conditions, together with adults. i would like to call on you to call on the member states to search actively for them, rescue and bring them to europe for the care that they deserve as european citizens and for reintegration. no child is born a terrorist, and the best interest of the child has to be upheld. member states have to respect the convention for the rights of the child and the charter of human rights of the european union. these children cannot pay for the mistakes and the crimes committed by their parents. i hope you agree with me.
madam president, undermining the independence of the judiciary; undermining the independence of the prosecutors; hindering new parties from being established; trying to legalise corruption; fighting not corruption but those who fight corruption; getting rid of uncomfortable leaders of independent authorities; prohibiting them from leaving the country. of course this is a collapse of the rule of law. and what worries me maybe most is the denials. but i must say also, mr weidenholzer, the silence from the socialist group is thundering. your contribution here tonight was not impressive, and i will tell you why. the defence of rule of law and democracy does not follow party colours. the misuse of power in hungary or in poland doesn’t excuse it in romania, and i have heard you – all of you – be very vocal, just as i am about hungary, just as i am about poland. but your silence is thundering. you’re misusing your obligation to defend democracy: you as a leader here tonight in the socialist group. that is wrong.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, once again i would like to thank the rapporteur mr klinz and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment. i look forward to the vote tomorrow, which should pave the way for a swift entry into force of this legislative package. we estimate up to eur 440 million in cost savings for fund managers thanks to our measures. this will accelerate the growth of the single market for investment funds, boost competition between asset managers and ultimately give more choice at lower costs for investors.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues, the shadows, the commission and the council for all the good work we have done and what we have achieved. regarding the banking crisis, we have in reality succeeded with three different legislations: first of all, the hierarchy, which we decided upon a year ago, and now the two legislations for the single resolution mechanism regulation (srmr) and the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd). this is built upon the bank recovery and resolution directive that was adopted in 2014. one of the fundamental aims of that was to change the logic of the banking sector, to clarify that those who own a bank or invest in a bank have full responsibility when bad times come. together with the tools of a bridge bank or mergers of banks, we added the bail-in procedure, meaning that, if you have invested in the bank, you also risk losing the capital you have invested. this is something we have in order to achieve two fundamentally-important things: first of all to clarify to everyone that you have risk when investing in a bank. the other one is to ensure that you can do the bail-in procedure in a foreseeable and certain way. for me as the rapporteur of the brrd from the beginning, and now with these legislations, it has been extremely important to stick to that rule, to ensure that the introduction of tlac (total loss-absorbing capacity) is not a way of circumventing the fact that all capital in a bank is to be seen as ‘bail-in-able: that is, creating a market discipline and helping taxpayers in all the different events that can come. this also means that we have achieved better rules regarding how to set the tlac in minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). i’m happy that we achieved a discretionary cap from parliament’s side, meaning that you don’t punish banks with a high level of own capital, but also meaning that you can set the level of mrel and tlac depending on the risk structure of the bank. this is what we have achieved and i think that we are now facing the fact that, if i may phrase it that way, never have we had such good opportunities for those who will have the responsibility to resolve banks in bad times, because this means that this will be easier – we are facilitating that – but it also means that the markets will be much more alert and avoid banking getting into crisis. that is, of course, the most important thing. the fact that everyone who invests in a bank now knows that you are risking something means that we will have thousands and thousands of supervisors securing that you have the right level of capital and the right level of mrel in the banks they are providing capital to. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the commission, who have helped us through with this. we now have a very good foundation for the banking union and we have a very good foundation for the european economy.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would also like to express my shock at the terrible fire in notre dame de paris. it’s a landmark not only for paris or france; it’s a landmark for the whole of europe and the world, so indeed it’s very sad to see it going down in flames. moving back to the banking package. the banking reform package represents an important step towards further reducing risks in the financial sector. so i’d like to, once again, thank you for your support expressed in this house for this package. subject to your endorsement of this package tomorrow, the risk reductions contained in it would not only strengthen the resilience of europe’s banking system and increase market confidence, but they will also pave the way for further progress in the completion of the banking union, such as delivering a much-needed common backstop to the single resolution fund. i am happy to see this important piece of work delivered and finalised, and i am confident it will contribute to making our financial sector more robust and stable, and i hope it will pave the way for further progress towards deepening the economic and monetary union. therefore, i encourage you to endorse the political agreement tomorrow and, once again, thank you to the rapporteurs.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all to madam berès and to our french colleagues, sad news from paris, sad news for us all, because notre-dame is notre dame – in history and all the sagas, but also as a cultural landmark for europe, and that remains very strong. madam president, regarding the banking package. a lot of things have already been said here tonight, but i think it’s fair to say that now the landscape is different. the european banking sector is today much more robust but also much more ready to act when there is a crisis. and there will come new crises. the question is just how we are able to deal with them, and i’m convinced that with the introduction of the brrd, as we have decided here in parliament, and the revision we are going to decide upon now, with a hierarchy and with the tlac, and with its discretionary opportunities for competent authorities: things are better. that doesn’t mean that all the problems ahead of us are solved, but i think we have created the mechanism for those who are responsible in each and every situation to do the best they can in order to solve those situations. i must also say that i’m happy to achieve this. this is, madam president, the last report i’ll be presenting to this plenary, and i feel proud that we have achieved this together, and i have a lot of admiration for all the colleagues here, from all sorts of tribes, all sorts of political colours and coming from all parts of europe. it has for me been a fantastic 15 years in this parliament, and i’m looking forward to following it from my sofa.
madam president, i would like to thank you. support for membership of the european union is quite high throughout the union. over 65 percent of swedes think we should be in. at the same time, the same polls show that a majority of citizens do not trust the eu, do not trust us to help them deal with the problems they face in their daily lives. what these two figures tell us together is that we must immediately present a plan to improve the way this union works, to regain the trust of the citizens. if we do not, this parliament will not only be filled with extremists on both sides - whom we do not want in this parliament next term - but support for membership will also be reduced. then we have a serious problem. now we have a month. we must now show the citizens that we hear what they are saying, that we take it to heart, are prepared to do something about it and are therefore worthy of their trust.
madam president, children’s rights are not a soft nor a small issue. they are a serious issue. as founder of the intergroup of children’s rights and now european parliament coordinator on children’s rights, we together have been the driving force for putting children at the heart of the eu internal and external action. a permanent body of the parliament acting as a focal point, mainstreaming children’s rights, was much needed, and my priority has been to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, to protect migrant children and to increase child participation. we have come a long way. we are in close partnership with the council of europe and the un family to strengthen cooperation to protect children globally, and in this house we have just launched both the economy and childhood global index on child sexual violence and the ‘act to protect children in conflict’ campaign by the special representative of the secretary-general for children and armed conflict. for the next mandate, i call on the commission to adopt a new child rights agenda, to review the eprivacy, the audiovisual media service directive, gdpr and other acts on the sexual abuse of children, to create a safe internet for kids. i call on all candidates to join our pledge to become a child rights champion and to commit to promote the children’s rights mandate.
madam president, i think this whole debate shows one thing and that is the strength of european unity. the problems in westminster are caused by the fact that belonging to the european union means a lot for a society and it is difficult to break up. i must say, and i will give him credit for that, mr farage is a funny person, but he is just funny. you have never seriously contributed to european security, to economic growth in europe, to open markets in europe. you have been funny all the time, and why should we be afraid of you? you are trying to make us afraid of people like you coming back. well you’re just a funny clerk at the court. we like to listen to you sometimes, but we really don’t listen to what you say, because what you say has no real meaning for the unity of europe or for the people of europe, you are just funny and we are not afraid of you and i hope that the united kingdom can stay in a united european union. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is a little surreal to be here, not only because this is one of my last speeches in the plenary, but above all because the swedish social democrats say that this is not happening. we're not having this debate. the eu is not regulating the swedish labour market. if the eu does that, it has nothing to do with the social summit and the social pillar. sweden's prime minister, stefan löfven, even called it a "crime". if i then read the commission's proposal, it may begin by saying that this initiative is one of the most important actions of the commission in the follow-up to the social pillar of social rights presented at the gothenburg summit in 2017. but this is not happening. the main message is that in our reality, this is absolutely not happening. sometimes they wake up, the swedish social democrats, for example last november, when they called the proposal unacceptable, it risks having a strong impact on the swedish model with our laws and our collective agreements. they're right. it's unacceptable, but the incomprehensible thing is that they vote for it. now, however, they seem to be saying again that this is not happening, and perhaps that is why they are not here today to participate in the debate. what is happening here is not happening - at least not according to the social democrats.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? last may we adopted the agreement on the posting directive. it was a great victory for many wage earners and for the trade union movement, that is, equal pay for equal work in the same place. it is now necessary for the member states to implement this directive properly and for us to follow up on this. the european labour authority is an important piece of the puzzle for that follow-up. the authority will also contribute to better information sharing between member states. we know there's so much fraud in the social security payments. without information, it is impossible to cope with this. all workers in europe must be fully insured. what the eu and the authority can really do is to ensure that people do not fall between their seats when moving between countries. there should be order and justice in the labour market. at the same time, i am very pleased that we have reached a compromise which respects national competence and the role of the key players. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his cooperation during this election period. it's been fun. (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. – mr president, ..(inaudible) do the same as mr klinz. thank you all from me for a fantastic 15 years: fantastic friends all over the borders, from political borders and national borders. i would like to underline that here lies an opportunity to make europe stronger: a free society open for all individuals, strong in a global environment that needs cooperation. the european union is a fascinating thing. we might sometimes have different views, but the good thing is that we have a common task and a common aim. so thanks to all of you for a fantastic 15 years. those are my last two reports, and i hope they will contribute to a more stable europe. (applause)
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. we have just listened to greta thunberg and heard what we have to do here in europe to reduce our emissions. however, i think we need to talk about what we are going to do also for all those who are suffering from the consequences of our emissions those in other parts of the world. because the extremes of weather are becoming more severe and more common, and others are the ones who are most affected. it's great that we're providing humanitarian aid, but we also have to do prevention. it is a question of huge amounts of resources that must go into preventing, adapting poor countries to the new conditions. this is nothing new in, for example, mozambique. in 2000, there was a huge flood in mozambique. in 2013, i was there after another major flood. i visited the gaza strip and aid projects where people have been moved up so that they no longer live in the low-lying areas. but there is so much more that is needed. and now we have this huge flood of 2019. we also have to work long-term. mozambique has large gas reserves. it could bring the country a fortune. but all that gas can only be turned against them in the end. so how do we go about finding a long-term solution?
for the verts/ale group. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. fifty years ago, neil armstrong set foot on the moon. the 1969 moon landing was not only a great step for mankind but also the result of a visionary and courageous research policy that the whole of society came together behind. our generation's equivalent is to use science to help solve the climate problem. tomorrow we will vote on horizon europe, the eu's research and innovation programme. it has been a long and intensive negotiation and i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues and the commission for the good cooperation. the initiatives that horizon europe brings make us better equipped to meet the global climate challenges we face. if the budget negotiations go our way, horizon europe will guarantee at least €420 billion in investment in renewable energy, sustainable mobility and green industries. this is where the green paradigm shift begins.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, two months ago i bought a new iron, and at the first ironing it burnt my shirt. i have a colleague here who has kids, and she bought singing toys that were not able to stop singing: they starting singing in the middle of the night, and in order to stop them they had to take all the batteries out and throw them away. and the third one here is a dangerous hairdryer: it more or less takes your hair off and ages you 20 years in a matter of seconds. this is what this legislation is about: making sure that the goods sold on the internal market are safe and compliant with the rules adopted in this parliament. it is time to do something about it; we can improve consumer legislation every day, but if the rules are not obeyed, then there is no meaning in it. what we are doing here is actually strengthening the surveillance of the internal market. by that, we are making sure that consumers never again have to endure the warm wrath of the faulty hairdryer or the faulty batteries that are exploding in your bag. this is what we are required to do for the european citizens, and it is actually one good thing that we can give before the elections.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a couple of years ago, online, i booked a room in an amazing hotel for the price of nothing. the rooms were beautiful; the view was amazing; the furniture was just too good to be true. and when i got there, it turned out that it really was too good to be true. it was not beautiful, not amazing, not a hotel. it was actually a garage that somebody had transformed into a kind of room that i was supposed to live in. the purpose of this legislation is to avoid such scenarios in the future, because this is an experience that many european consumers have in everyday trade online. the proposal that is on the table is actually defending that, and i think, in that way, it is a victory for consumers. it defends the right to withdrawal – which in my case would be very suitable, in that in that position. it actually took a very reasonable stance on the contentious issue of the dual quality of products. i do understand it’s very difficult, but it is a good point that we have, and it makes it more difficult for the unserious businesses to trick you. what we are doing, the new transparency requirements online, will make sure that the ranking criteria on your site is clearly visible. that you cannot cheat with that. the new provision will stop the fake reviews from taking place, and the ambition is that, in the future, the amazing view is just simply amazing. i think this is good legislation, and i hope that my colleagues will not fall into the trap of putting it back, sending it back to the committee because of this contentious issue of dual—quality products.
mr president, i would like to say that the development of latvia, estonia and lithuania belongs to the miracles of modern european history – the peaceful transformation, freedom. thirty years ago i started in sweden a campaign for supporting baltic independence. we were in estonia, latvia and lithuania. i remember i met with sandra, tunne and a lot of others fighting for independence in soviet territory, and now a very good friend of mine, sitting here – you are nice as well, mr šadurskis – has, after having been a leading parliamentarian in this parliament, become the leader of the free and independent latvia. this is a miracle, and in some way i would like to say to all colleagues here – because for me this is the last speech – that it couldn’t be better than to have you here, krišjānis kariņš. but i would also like to say, don’t we need the coburns and the farages as co—stewards, telling us the absurdity of not having european union? because what you have achieved and what you lined out as a vision of political change – not diving into institutional discussions, but how to change europe – is manifesting the best we can do and they are representing the absurdity of not doing it. you are the best of europe: your country and our country, and as a swede, we are proud of having you as a neighbour. (applause)
mr president, first of all, warm congratulations to my colleague roberta metsola for her outstanding work on this. thanks for all the good cooperation we have enjoyed throughout these years. thanks also to the commissioner for this excellent proposal. when i fly over europe, i see no borders. these words were attributed to the first president of the free czechoslovakia, václav havel, and the great success of european integration: the removal of the internal borders rests on having strong external borders. let me be very clear. it’s not about building a fortress europe. it’s not about turning away people, it is primarily about exercising control over the flows of people going in and out of the union. it’s about making sure that we conduct proper screening, security checks and process in an orderly manner all those who arrive here seeking international protection. proper border protection is also crucial to fight the influx of counterfeit products, narcotics, weapons and other items and substances that we do not want in the european union. the report we are adopting today does not go towards a fully federalised competence. in my view, that is the way forward, but this is a very important step in the right direction. and allow me – i have been a member here for 10 years and this is one of my last speeches in plenary after the 10 years – to thank every colleague and everybody that i worked with and remember that where politics ends, friendship remains and to make an end is also a chance to make a new beginning. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. according to the united nations refugee agency, unhcr, an average of 44,400 people are forced to flee their homes every day because of war or persecution. the number of displaced persons in 2017 was 68.5 million. according to the same organization, the changing climate and the increase in natural disasters caused by climate change will lead to large population movements. we usually estimate that by 2050, there will be 200 to 250 million climate refugees, and that's in addition to the 600 million affected by sea level rise. only a very small proportion of refugees have so far taken refuge in europe. what is our response to the few who actually come here? we are prepared to invest substantial resources in keeping them out and in extending the eu's border and coast guard mandate. it's another example of how short-sighted we are. what we need to do instead is to pay for massive efforts to prevent involuntary migration, both conflict-related and climate-related or poverty-related.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the visa code was the first issue that i was given responsibility for in my political group, the greens. this is also the subject of my last speech in the plenary this term. it started at the beginning of the election campaign with a very good proposal from the commission which was aimed at making it easier for many people to come to europe and that it would be easier to come several times, etc. however, as we know, it was not adopted by the council when it refused to accept the amendments we had tabled on the issue of humanitarian visas. when we got back the new proposal, it was a completely different proposal. it was not so much about making it easier, but it also suggested that it be linked to return. although our rapporteur has done a great job of getting as much of parliament's position as possible into the final proposal, we feel that we have not succeeded in getting everything. for us, for us greens, the link with return is what makes us unable to vote for this report, which, of course, has a lot of good things in it. another issue is the increased fees. it's going to be very difficult for families who want to come here, especially from poorer countries, to actually do so with these very high fees. then i don't care what it costs in the u.s. or china or anywhere else. it's going to be hard for these people, and we're not for it. thank you all for a great collaboration and good luck to all those who will not be here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work on the common visa code. i appreciate the commitment and determination that have characterised the process of this important piece of legislation. i support the compromises that parliament has agreed to, in particular the reduction in visa costs and the possibility of obtaining multiple-entry visas with a longer period of validity. the new rules will improve safety and make it much easier to detect potential security risks. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is my very last speech in the house. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you for all the debates, for all the work we have done together during these ten wonderful years in the service of european democracy. i want to emphasize that when politics ceases, friendship ceases. i wish you all the best, whether you continue here in the european parliament or on the new journey that life takes us on each one of us.
member of the commission. – madam president, it’s a pleasure to be here today for the final debate on the legislation setting the first ever co2 emission standards for new heavy—duty vehicles. the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council is a very important achievement and it marks the completion of a comprehensive legislative framework on climate and clean energy for 2030. a swift agreement on this regulation has been possible thanks to the constructive efforts and spirit of compromise of the negotiators from both institutions. i would like very especially to thank the rapporteur, mr eickhout, and all the shadow rapporteurs and congratulate them on the very good result achieved in such a short time-frame. the agreement reached is both ambitious and balanced. its most important elements are that for new heavy—duty vehicles the european union fleet-wide average co2 emissions will have to be 15% lower in 2025 and 30% lower in 2030, compared to the reference period, which covers july 2019 to june 2020. the targets cover the largest vehicles, which account for about 17% of the total co2 emissions of the heavy—duty sector, and a technology-neutral incentive system will stimulate manufacturers to deploy zero and low—emission vehicles in the next decade, starting in 2019 with super credits and followed by a benchmark system from 2025 onwards. a strong governance system will make sure that the emission reductions occur in reality and not only on paper. a comprehensive review in 2022 will evaluate the effectiveness of the legislation. this new legislation completes the picture required to put the road transport sector on a clear pathway towards clean mobility and a broader transition to a climate—neutral economy. let me highlight its main benefits. without action, emissions from heavy—duty vehicles would represent almost 25% of road transport emissions, which are set to increase by almost 10% by 2030 compared to 2010. with the targets agreed and with the post—2020 targets for cars and vans, greenhouse gas emissions from road transport will be reduced by 24% by 2030 compared to 2005. this will help member states to reach the binding targets under the effort sharing regulation and the european union to deliver its commitments under the paris agreement. transport operators will benefit from fuel savings of up to eur 25 000 in the first five years of use of a new truck bought in 2025 and around eur 60 000 for a new truck bought in 2030. this will help in particular 600 000 small and medium—sized enterprises that operate in the european union freight transport sector and employ almost three million people. the legislation will also contribute to modernising the european union economy, and especially the automotive sector, to channel investments and strengthen innovation for clean-vehicles technologies. in particular, the incentive system for zero and low—emission heavy—duty vehicles will reward the frontrunners in developing and deploying such innovative vehicles. the legislation also provides a signal for investors in refuelling and recharging infrastructure so that the enabling conditions for the deployment of zero and low—emission vehicles are created. finally, it is also projected to have positive impacts on economic growth and employment and to lower european union oil imports. honourable members, let me conclude by inviting you to support this ambitious and balanced agreement when voting tomorrow. this new legislation will put europe on track towards the necessary transition towards clean mobility. i would also take the opportunity to inform the members of this house that the commission has tabled two statements to accompany its full support for the overall agreement. they concern the continuous development of the vehicle energy consumption calculation tool (vecto) simulation tool and the transposition of a specific provision related to the maximum authorised weight of zero—emission heavy—duty vehicles. once again, i thank all honourable members for their support. commission statements(in writing) "commission statement on article 20 - amendment to directive 96/53/ec with regard to the maximum authorised weight of alternatively fuelled or zero emission heavy-duty vehicles the commission notes the agreement of the co-legislators relating to article 20 of this regulation, which amends directive 96/53/ec without setting an explicit time limit for its transposition. the commission also notes that other provisions of directive 96/53/ec are being modified by the decision [2018/0130(cod)], which provides for an application of those new provisions as of 1 september 2020. given the situation, the commission calls upon member states to carry out as soon as possible and at the latest by the same date, i.e. 1 september 2020, any necessary adaptation of their national legislation to article 20 of the present regulation and to inform the commission thereof in accordance with article 11 of directive 96/53/ec. this would obviate any need for a further legislative proposal by the commission on this issue."
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. many years of work on truck emissions is now coming to an end for me, for the committee, for this election. the new emissions rules we are voting on tomorrow after many, long and difficult negotiations are, after all, very good. they're bringing us closer to transportation without harming our environment. this is actually my last speech here in the european parliament, and i want to take this opportunity to thank you for 15 wonderful years. this is where i got my first gray hair from some of you gathered in this room. however, it has been a privilege to represent sweden and the moderates here in the european parliament, a privilege to make a difference, a privilege to make a difference for free trade that lifts people out of poverty and makes europe richer, a privilege to make a difference for the environment through a policy that puts people at the centre and that makes other parts of the world want to follow us and a privilege to make a difference for sweden, for europe. we've had our differences on a lot of things. i may not have always appeared to be particularly "moderate", but i have tried to represent the ideas of freedom and my constituents to the best of my ability. europe is worth fighting for. europe offers hope for peace, freedom and community. to all of you who will continue, or come after me in my place, i just want to say: never let that hope go, because it's worth fighting for.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, my starting point was as follows: new, legally sound rules that promote crossborder business opportunities in the internal market for serious companies are good and important, but the regulatory framework must also include safeguards and anti-dumping measures on taxes and social conditions and must not facilitate companies that want to move or merge solely to avoid workers' rights and influence, social protection and taxes. on this basis, i would like to thank rapporteur evelyn regner and all the shadow rapporteurs for the very good work they have done in the negotiations with the council of ministers. the agreement is a major step in the right direction. the new rules ensure more opportunities for businesses to move and grow within the eu's single market. at the same time, the new rules offer strong protection and transparency for employees, shareholders and creditors. that said, i hope that we can adopt the agreement tomorrow. fair corporate governance in the internal market is a necessity. the new rules' adequate protection against abuse and fraud is also important for restoring citizens' confidence in the internal market and a major step forward in the fight for a fair internal market with orderly labour markets and the fight against letterbox businesses.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the brunei legislation that criminalizes lgbtq people and a range of other human life situations, torture, death penalty. i am happy to be one of the drafters of this resolution. just as in this house with some representatives - also in this house - religion, in this case islam, but with us in this house mostly christianity, is used to direct threats and hatred against human rights, against women's rights, against lgbtq rights. threatening and violating lgbtq people, our lives and our bodies in this way should have no place in brunei but neither should it have here in europe. as the resolution says, it should be condemned. we're going to issue humanitarian visas. we will use all the pressure we can against airlines, against hotel chains and others connected to this tyrannical regime in brunei. human rights must also be given priority in eu policy towards other countries. this threatening and hateful movement, however, is a global one. just recently we saw a hate meeting in colombia under the christian banner with european and american participants, including even high-ranking swedish politicians. so while we are beating ourselves up for defending human rights in other countries, we should probably also clean up our own house. restricting the space of life, threatening and hating lgbtq people has no place in brunei, but it has no place here in europe either.
author. – mr president, we are living in a crisis. the whole world is in crisis. we have the climate crisis. we have ultra-conservative, dark, evil forces growing closer and closer into our parliaments across the world, and we have a crisis when it comes to women’s rights, lgbti rights, and when it comes, in common human rights, respect for human rights is under attack as well as in europe and across the world. the growing nationalism is a real crisis for our democratic values. so i would like to say to all of you up on the balcony, it is your responsibility to safeguard our democratic values on 26 may, and to all the people across the european union, stand up for our values. when it comes to brunei and the new sharia penal code, it is cruel, it is degrading and inhumane. it targets already vulnerable groups like women, children and lgbti people, and deprives them of their human rights. according to the new laws, children as young as seven years old can be punished by flogging. consensual same sex acts and abortion can be punished by death, by stoning. in civilized societies, human rights are respected. it is not a crime to be gay, lesbian or bisexual or to have an abortion. i demand an immediate end to this new sharia penal code.
president, after the elections in the netherlands it was quickly clear that the constructive media will have to take responsibility if we are to ensure that this europe continues to function. the flank, madam president, you have heard enough, finds your plans either too much or too little. perhaps that is the best sign that you have found a good balance. there has been a great deal of discussion in this house about your nomination and the way in which it was put forward. but, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is entitled to look at itself very critically at times. the candidate spoke of the importance of unity, and it is precisely this unity that this parliament has not shown after the elections. to think that you can burn the spitzenkandidat of the largest political party to the bone, because you then hope to get the second spitzenkandidat, that was incredibly naive. those people who don't care about transparency, democracy, a strong european parliament, of course, jump on that horse and run away, macron and orbán - what a special combination - in the lead. so i welcome the pledges of this candidate to ensure that the damage done by the council is reduced by 2024. but i am also glad that this candidate began her speech by mentioning simone veil, who was not only the president of this house but who was also one of the first female members - one of the few, unfortunately female members - of the académie française, and when she became a member of the académie française she received a sword. on this sword she made sure that there were three engravings 78561, her number in auschwitz, reminding us every day why we have this europe and why we should fight for it every day; the motto of the french republic; and the motto of europe, unity in diversity and the choice we have ahead of us tonight those who are responsible, those who are constructive is: are we going to be guided in our vote by frustration and anger about the council's backroom deal or, in the spirit of simone veil, will we build, together with this candidate, the europe that our citizens need?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take a step back from the european elections last may, when the nationalist parties that came forward betting on the failure and collapse of europe have not achieved their goal, so far. the citizens of europe still want to believe in europe. that is why, mrs von der leyen, we are asking you to live up to this objective, to give a strong signal of the revival of the european dream, of innovation, as well as of having a woman for the first time preside over such an important institution. i'll tell you this, in two words: we want a europe that is solid and supportive, that no longer turns its back on those who are left behind, but that has the courage to use all the flexibility provided for in the stability pact for growth and employment, that finally points to a new model of development, that unambiguously puts the environmental question not as a limit - as we have seen too many times here - but as an opportunity that does not stop but fuels growth because it makes it sustainable, and in this way you would provide the pretext for those who have said, here, even today, that you are elusive on this point. we want a europe that does not turn a blind eye to the nationalists for a few more votes in this house, but keeps the bar of europeanism firmly on its feet, not of walls but of shared responsibilities, as when we talk about economic governance but also about immigration. we did it in here when we modified the dublin system. if that is the vision, but only if that is the vision and action of the next commission, we will be there.
mr president, i would say to the president—designate that 15 years ago central europeans gave their trust to the european project and now that trust is eroding. many proposals in the past created an east—west divide on many issues – from single market issues to the dual quality of products, posting of workers and issues such as how to make europe more secure. it is extremely important that the new commission adopt a new and different approach. the eu must work to rebuild trust, the trust the people have lost; to ensure that we listen to each other before any proposal is made; to continue to abolish the existing barriers in the internal market, and not to create new ones; to treat all eu citizens equally, with equal access to work and study anywhere in europe. madam president—designate, i hope you can pledge today to be the voice of all eu citizens.
mr president, madam minister, good afternoon. your candidacy is a triple resignation, i have to say. the abandonment of the parliamentarisation of community political life. the renouncement of a strong defence of the rule of law, because we cannot forget that you are here because mr timmermans was vetoed by some countries for being brave in this matter. and a renunciation of a political programme of change, since the one you have presented to us has many limitations, as my colleagues have already said. moreover, your commission may start with an original sin which it will carry with it throughout its term of office, if it is elected with some votes from the far right today - by the way, ladies and gentlemen, something which will put at risk the credibility of the exercise of the health cord we are trying to do in this house. for all these reasons, madam minister, i will not be able to vote for your candidacy. i think parliament would do well to reject it. and to those who are telling us that we must support his candidacy in the interests of europeanism, i want to say that to subject the european parliament constantly and permanently to the council's manoeuvres and bad decisions is the worst favour we can do to europe. for the sake of democratic, institutional and european dignity, therefore, i believe that his candidacy must be rejected and we must ask the council to hold a new summit.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, you have put forward a very ambitious plan, but we have heard little about how you intend to implement it. you took me back to my childhood for a moment. growing up in socialist yugoslavia, i had the opportunity to hear some grand ideas similar to yours. brotherhood and unity, political integration, a common army, greater labor and women's rights, and we know how that ended. your vision will end the same way because the citizens don't want it. if they wanted to, you wouldn't be worried about having a majority in this house. you talk about unity and equality in europe, and you forget that all the leading functions of the eu institutions are held by the old members, and you even propose a re-voting in the field of foreign and security policy. so much for equality. in your speech, you mentioned the foundations of europe in greek philosophy and roman law, but as a christian democrat, you missed mentioning christianity. your europe is running away from its roots and that is why it is so divided now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ursula von der leyen, i hope that all those who believe in european cooperation today will give you their support. it looks like the extreme left and the extreme right are going to vote against you today. i think you should consider that a badge of honor. i am surprised that the green group seems to be choosing this company today. i must also say that i think it is a little embarrassing to vote against the first woman to become president of the commission and also against a person who could manage to gather a majority for a progressive climate policy in europe. we have a lot to work on in europe now. it is not just about the climate, but also about fighting cross-border crime. we take free movement in europe for granted, but it should not apply to criminals and terrorists. in this area, we also need to strengthen police cooperation. immigration policy is also absolutely crucial that we can achieve increased cooperation and a sufficient majority to achieve an immigration policy that is not only more legally secure but also much more controlled. i am absolutely convinced that in this parliament it is possible to gather a majority for an immigration policy which can be guided by both heart and brain. in conclusion, the commission has europe for me is about freedom, it is about entrepreneurship, it is about increasing the security of all our citizens. you have our support today. you too have very high expectations of yourselves, but you also expect a european parliament which will be ready to work together to tackle the central problems of europe, because we have to do that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that not one single section in her 2019 assessment of the global strategy is dedicated to islamic extremism or the global persecution of christians. this is nothing less than shameful. radical imams and billions of euros are flowing into the eu, promoting segregation. this strategy should aim to secure europe. instead, the eu offers deepened partnership with countries that are complacent in the face of islamism, and these are countries that often tolerate or encourage the persecution of christians. christians are being wiped out across the middle east. a report commissioned by the united kingdom describes how islamic extremism leads to genocidal acts against christians. eu aid and trade policies should be used to pressure countries to stop the promotion of islamic extremism. we need to join the usa in supporting vulnerable minorities in their hour of need. for, if not us, who?
mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that the evil of communism has many faces. in venezuela that face is nicolás maduro, who has torn this previously so wealthy country into pieces. according to the imf, the country’s inflation rate is projected to hit 10 million per cent by the end of 2019, and at home venezuelans are starving to death. when taking to the streets they are being gunned down by maduro’s security forces. to survive, some five million people will have fled the country by the end of this year, according to the united nations. venezuelans have been brought to their knees but they are not defeated. juan guaidó is their legitimate interim president, and this very european parliament, and a majority of member states, have recognised him as such. still, quite a few members and member states keep supporting maduro’s illegitimate regime, and by doing so they legitimise maduro’s loathsome crimes against the courageous people of venezuela. for that they will go down in history, although probably not quite in the way that they were hoping for. so i agree with my ppe colleagues, high representative, that you need to take the lead on eu policy in venezuela. maduro must be held accountable for his hideous crimes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister rinne! the finnish presidency stresses in its programme the importance of making the return of persons staying illegally in our countries more effective. please inform your party brother, prime minister löfven, of this. at the same time, we must put an end to the deadly and lucrative activities of the people smugglers in the mediterranean. you have said that the signal effect, that is to say the possibility of entering europe by boat, could influence the decision to leave the country of origin. please inform your party brother, prime minister löfven, of this. if the women from the al-hol camp who joined isis return, they will, according to your protection police, likely increase the terrorist threat in finland. is this the reason you have so far refused consular assistance for their return? is it not enough that the government's assistance in repatriating these individuals is contrary to nordic legal conscience? mr. prime minister, please inform your party brother, prime minister löfven, of this.
mr president, i would like to give a warm welcome to the finnish presidency team to the house today. as the deadline of 31 october looms, the finnish presidency will be dominated, whether you like it or not, by the eu’s response to brexit. both candidates in the race to become the new british prime minister have rejected the backstop. the backstop, as i have said many times in this house, threatens the constitutional and economic integrity of the united kingdom. the eu can continue to go down the path of intransigence, promoting a deal that will never make it through the uk parliament, thereby ensuring no deal. this will of course present serious challenges to the mff, which is one of your priorities, and ultimately the pockets of european taxpayers. or it can act in the interests of its own businesses, farmers and citizens by pursuing a more sensible and pragmatic outcome to show that the eu can listen. a solution on the irish border is possible with political will. but a proposal which imposes trade barriers in the united kingdom... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! we look very much forward to the finnish presidency with a clear agenda to safeguard the rule of law, increase competitiveness and also with increased climate ambitions. i would also like to mention in particular that we welcome your prioritising the security of europe, which is important not only to be able to combat crossborder crime and the terrorist threat but also to be able to counter increasingly aggressive behaviour from russia. in the face of these threats, europe is not strong alone, and it is important that europe stands together. as a swedish member, i am of course also particularly pleased that a neighbouring country is now taking over the presidency. we have a lot in common, and we wish you every success now as well as in this year's ice hockey world championships. happy meal!
madam president, i would like to thank you. the events of the summer with the rescue boat in italy show that europe still lacks a long-term and sustainable migration policy. but let us be very clear that the answers are not coming from the far left or the right-wing populists. however, there are lessons to be learned from these events. first of all: laws and regulations must be enforced. operations in the mediterranean are life-saving, but they must be carried out within the law and in cooperation with the member states. secondly: the italian government's actions do not solve the basic problem. instead, they shift the responsibility to other countries. thirdly: instead, we must move towards a policy of rapid asylum applications so that we can also develop a sustainable migration policy in the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we greens cannot stand by and watch thousands of lives being lost. we, the eu, do not save lives by making fancy statements about stopping human smuggling or by making deals with rogue states like libya. people are dying in this now. i would therefore urge the newly elected president, mrs von der leyen, and the council to take two decisive decisions immediately. first of all: stop member states from criminalising civilian aid operations in the mediterranean. saving lives is never a crime! instead, demand that these member states do everything possible to save lives with the help of all of us. secondly: jointly decide on a long-term solution based on solidarity with both the people fleeing and the member states bearing the brunt of the burden.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the quality of air in our cities is a very important factor for our health, especially now that more and more people are moving to our cities. however, increased emissions from industry and fossil fuel vehicle fleets have caused the premature deaths of 400 000 people in europe each year in recent years. that is twice the population of strasbourg. this is completely unacceptable. the commission has so far failed to deliver credible legislation to really improve the air quality in our cities. it is true that yesterday ursula von der leyen promised to deliver a more ambitious overall strategy to protect the health of citizens. but my question is what, if anything, really distinguishes the new from the old and what makes the commission more hopeful for the future compared to what has been delivered to date.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i listened to your speech. you started by saying that it's ridiculous to look at the state of the european union's forests. i, on the contrary, believe that we need to discuss and take action. what do you think should be done if we are talking about a european union, a single market, a union of states? do you think that we should be left to do whatever we want with forests, or should we look here and find specific measures to be able to improve the situation of forests?
my dear mrs. the chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is certainly timely, especially in view of the last few months in which we have witnessed large-scale forest fires worldwide that have burned down thousands of hectares of forest. it is important, however, that we do not stop at this debate, as unfortunately happens often in this chamber. although forest management is a policy within the competence and responsibilities of the member states, it is important to note and reiterate once again the european union forest strategy, which should serve as a reference point with which to coordinate national policies. about 50% of europe's land area is forested, representing about 5% of the world's forest stock. although europe is not a large and significant forest reserve on a global scale, the cliché that they are the green lungs of the planet and we should take care of them is true. although global trends are decreasing, forest areas in the union continue to grow and have increased by around 11 million hectares by 2010. i believe that everyone in this room agrees on the vital importance of forests in conserving nature and biodiversity, in mitigating the effects of climate change and in fighting to save individual regions. it's important to protect them from illegal logging and burning. i call for the use of all instruments, especially personal example.
madam president, forestry strategy, if implemented properly, should be good for the environment, it should be good for local communities and it should be good for rural economies. we have a situation in my own member state of ireland where government policy has ensured that the forestry strategy does none of those things. now that is not the fault of the european institutions, but the commitment that i would like from you, commissioner, and the commission this evening is that the eu won’t fund that policy and the strategy that has seen widespread planting of non-indigenous sitka spruce, in some cases actually on peat bogland, whereby the actual planting of forests is doing more environmental damage than if they were not planted in the first place. secondly, commissioner, i want you to answer the contradiction that lies at the heart of the commission’s position in talking about a forestry strategy while at the same time giving a blank cheque to the brazilian authorities to burn thousands, and hundreds of thousands, of acres of the most important forestry network in the world. that is a question that needs to be answered this evening, commissioner.
mr carthy, we are, as you know, having a debate tomorrow on that very important issue.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we all agree that forests play a key role in climate change. the commission's report shows that parts of europe's forests are suffering and have lost their resilience due to drought. this is a problem that must be taken seriously and followed up. but let me be clear. the solution is not regulation at eu level, but the self-determination of eu member states on forestry issues must be protected and maintained. those who are actively working in the forest are also the ones who are sitting on the knowledge of how we continue to manage the forest best. but there are two things we can do at eu level. the first is to modernise and update the 2013 forest strategy, as much progress has been made and the world has changed since then. secondly, we can ensure that eu legislation takes advantage of the opportunities offered by forests and forest products.
the debate on the commission statement on the preparation of the un climate action and sustainable development goals summit in new york (2019/2809 ((rsp)) will follow.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here this morning as we prepare for the forthcoming climate action and sustainable development goals summits in new york. regarding the climate action summit, the commission adopted on 11 september a communication to the european parliament and the council in preparation for the summit, to present the european union’s impressive track record on climate policy and our commitment to accelerated climate ambition. the high attendance of european union leaders at the summit – including the president of the european council donald tusk – will enable the european union to recall and explain comprehensively and coherently where europe stands today and where it wants to go. the european story is one of ambition, real action, unity and determination, and yet one that recognises the richness of approaches applied by the individual member states and adds value to them. the european union narrative for the summit will build on the following elements. first, the solid progress made on the preparation and finalisation of our long-term strategy for climate neutrality by 2050. second, the over-delivery of our nationally determined contribution (ndc) through a comprehensive body of detailed laws and measures. and third, the planning and organisation to monitor and review the actual implementation and the continuing adequacy of our goals and targets. last june a large majority of european leaders supported the commission proposals to make europe climate neutral by 2050 – a project that means radical transformation of our economy and our society. this is exceptional progress, considering the scale of the challenge. the european union has been increasing its climate ambition since 1990 and will continue to do so. the european union reduced its emissions by 22% between 1990 and 2017, while our gdp grew by 58%. full implementation of our new 2030 legislation, adopted with very large support in parliament and the council, would yield another 23% reduction between 2018 and 2030: twice as fast. the adoption of a 2050 objective, together with the governance mechanisms that we have put in place, will ensure that we will continue this acceleration, on a fast track but in a gradual and manageable manner, towards climate neutrality. when fully implemented, we estimate that the measures for 2030 will enable the european union to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 45% compared to 1990 levels, which goes further than the european union’s stated objective in its nationally determined contribution, to cut emissions by at least 40% by 2030. delivering on the 2030 targets will have benefits well beyond 2030. it will ensure the european union is also going in the right direction towards 2050. at the same time, the european union is already using its budget to ensure that investments are aligned and actively contributing to the climate goals – we have a 20% climate mainstreaming target in the current european union budget, amounting to around eur 200 billion of funds over the 2014-2020 period to support the low carbon transition. in the multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027 that is being discussed in parliament and in the council, the commission has proposed that 25% of the whole budget, or an expected eur 320 billion, will be specifically climate-relevant, and the rest will be compatible with our climate objectives. the climate and energy transition towards climate neutrality begins with a massive investment challenge, one that we must meet already in the coming years: investment in a clean energy system; in clean industry and clean mobility; in maintaining and restoring our land, to make sure that it not only continues to provide us with food, feed and fibres, but also helps us absorb the greenhouse gas emissions we will not be able to eliminate. we know, of course, that the scale of this investment is beyond the capacity of the public sector alone, and that the private sector will have a major role to play. to attract enough private investment, the european union is already putting in place the conditions and incentives for investors to fund projects aligned with the climate goals, such as the european union action plan on financing sustainable growth and the associated legislative package. we must focus on adaptation and resilience as well, and on disaster risk reduction, both in europe and elsewhere. to do this, we will be able to build on the work done under the european union’s adaptation strategy and on our international cooperation efforts in supporting our partner countries. to this end, the european union is stepping up its outreach and cooperation, financial and technical, to all partner countries. nationally determined contributions will be at the core of our support, especially in critical sectors such as renewable energy and energy efficiency, urban development or agriculture and forests. not only is the european union the world’s leading donor of development assistance with eur 74.4 billion in 2018, it is also the world’s largest climate finance donor, providing over 40% of the world’s public climate finance. the european union and its member states’ contributions have more than doubled since 2013, exceeding eur 20 billion annually. the european union remains fully committed to continuing to scale up the mobilisation of international climate finance, including through enhanced ambition by its investment facilities and the european investment bank. likewise, the european union’s array of legally binding trade and cooperation agreements will continue to include robust provisions to promote climate action and implement the paris agreement. the rapidly changing climate is a global problem and it calls for global responsibility. we in europe are doing our part. we have acted and we continue to act, but to meet our long-term temperature goals we know we must do more and act faster still. on all this, we have a strong message to communicate at the summit. we also know that the task does not end here. no matter how much we have done so far, and how much we have strengthened our ambition and speeded up our efforts in these past few years – the years in which i have had the honour of being in charge of climate action and energy policy, and therefore part of this effort – the summit in new york can only conclude that more is needed. europe will answer this call to action. following the elections to the european parliament and the political guidelines of the president-elect, it is very clear that the european union will continue to work to raise its ambition further – as always, ‘in a responsible way’ – but with undiminished determination. my expectation is that we will continue to take further bold actions, building on our solid and significant achievements so far, and that we will develop, in a not too distant future, the model for a climate-neutral, modern, competitive and prosperous european economy and society. this must also be a model that our partners in the rest of the world will want to emulate, and that will therefore enable us collectively to avert the climate disasters that would await us otherwise. let me turn now to the sustainable development goals summit (sdg summit). it is of great political importance. it closes the first four-year cycle of the high-level political forum. the commission welcomes that heads of state and government will, with all relevant stakeholders, for the first time have the opportunity to review progress in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals. the summit should provide political leadership, guidance and recommendations for acceleration progress towards the agenda. the sdg summit should endorse a political declaration that includes a clear call for accelerated action. the political declaration includes in particular the commitment to: maintain the integrity of the 2030 agenda and to persevere on the 2020 targets; more concrete language on climate change, including on the synergies between implementation of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement; more concrete language on broader environmental protection including new references to marine ecosystems and sustainable consumption and production. the commission supports the key messages in the global sustainable development report, notably: despite significant action underway across the world, the current rate of progress is not adequate to reach the sdgs; some trends even remain negative, including rising inequalities, global warming, biodiversity loss and increasing waste from human activity; and accelerated action is required, as dynamics show that some countries seem to distance themselves from the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement. let me conclude here by thanking you for your continuing strong support for european union climate action, which enabled us to tell this positive story on the international stage and to encourage our international partners to enhance global climate ambition and real action. this is what our citizens expect from all of us, including the young generation that is mobilising all over europe and the rest of the world for a better future.
i thank you, commissioner, for your speech and for the information you have given us on the message the commission intends to deliver at the important summit in new york. that is precisely the subject which we shall be discussing with the speakers. i give the floor to vice president mairead mcguinness.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am very conscious when i stand up here that the secretary-general of the un has said, ‘bring an action plan and not a speech’. the best we can do in this chamber this morning is bring a speech and a commitment to honour commitments that europe has signed up to, but also to acknowledge that though we speak well, we don’t always deliver. i am very conscious when i start with the sustainable development goals that there are four of them, in particular, where we are actually going backwards, for example, sustainable development goal 2 on hunger. we were making great progress, but as the fao have pointed out, we are now going backwards and over 820 million people don’t have enough to eat. there is rising inequality, commissioner, as you have just stated, so goal 10 is not being met. on biodiversity and climate, we are also not doing or putting into place actions which will allow us to meet these objectives. let me just mention again – on the hunger issue, because it is a very real problem and a challenge for us all to have policy coherence both in europe and, indeed, globally – the lancet report, which many of us are familiar with, talked about sustainable intensification. i think even in this house we do not have a consensus as to what that might look like, or how that might evolve, so we do need to have deeper discussions in this parliament between committees on these issues. one of the things that i hope for is that the new parliament, which is now in session, will allow for greater coordination between committees. on climate, we know that there are huge problems looming, and the younger generation are pushing us really forward to do more, but we also have to challenge ourselves and the younger generation to make sure we are ready for the changes in consumption and production patterns that will be required to meet all of these very noble but attainable objectives. just to mention two issues again – on oceans and on land. we have strong policies in europe. we need to impress upon our colleagues in the un next week that multilateralism is vital. the tragedy is that it’s now weaker than it was when it we signed up to these goals. i hope our delegation will impress that it is working together, both within europe and the rest of the world, so that we will make our greatest change and i certainly, as one of the leaders of the delegation, will stress that very objective.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, timing is everything and the climate action summit and the sustainable development goals summit are critical in helping us address the global climate emergency we are facing. the european union needs to agree on a climate plan that provides an overall level of ambition, ensuring that the required transition takes place and providing the necessary financial means, together with the horizontal policies that need to be set. as things stand today, even if all the 2030 pledges were to be fully implemented, we would not be on track to achieve the paris agreement targets. the european union has the potential and the duty to act ambitiously before 2030 and to adopt and implement a vision for a future climate-neutral and fossil-fuel-free environment. we require clear decarbonisation strategies by different sectors. we require action plans that clearly show how these strategies will be achieved and how they will be financed. they will require changes in sectors like transport, building, industry, agriculture and forestry. climate change is a global challenge and solutions need to be global too, as the commissioner himself indicated. but the european union needs to continue in its leadership role, whilst providing support to the most vulnerable countries that are mostly affected by climate change. we need collective action and, as part of parliament’s delegation to the summit, i want to hear a strong european voice that is not afraid of putting forward ambitious programmes, because weak commitments would undermine our communities, our industries, our economies, our youth and our children. it is only through eu leadership that we can speed up global action on the sustainable development goals and climate change goals and the eu should not shy away from its responsibilities.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, climate change is indeed already proven not a matter of ideology, but of survival. and we must act quickly, urgently, by taking decisions and actions unprecedented in our history. if we don't, the world is heading for an increase of more than three degrees celsius by the end of the century, and we will have missed any chance to act. but now we can. that is why the call and appeal of the un secretary-general for a climate action summit and a sustainable development goals summit next week - the most important un week - is absolutely key. because it does so at a crucial moment: one year before all the parties to the paris agreement have to present, have to present their national commitments; concrete commitments to decarbonization to avoid this temperature increase and that by 2050 we do not exceed one and a half degrees of increase. also at a time like this year, where we've seen how climate devastation in the form of drought, fires, floods have been in the news every day. the european union can lead this change in a summit which, as has already been said, is not about making speeches, but about presenting actions. the european union can do that. it has a clear commitment to climate neutral action by 2050. in this house, the president-designate of the commission recently announced the first european climate law, a great political ambition, accompanied also by a great ambition for financing, noting that the european investment bank must become partly a climate bank. so as a member of the european parliament delegation to this summit, i think we have to be aware that today, in the global world, in the field of multilateralism, only the european union can lead this process of change. we can and i sincerely believe we should.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. this friday will be the start of a week of action, a week of global action, of many citizens on the streets, and they have been referred to many times already, but they are asking for much more action than the world is taking right now, including europe. commissioner, i know this is probably going to be one of your last plenaries, but to be very honest, you must have noticed that your speaking notes on climate action of europe have not changed that much over the last two years. they have always referred to the fact that we have a 2030 package in place, that we are trying to get to carbon neutrality but still have not achieved it, and that we’re the only continent achieving something. i don’t think this is the speech that people are asking for. people are asking for more action; people are asking for politicians to listen to science, and we’re not doing that. the science is very clear: we have 10 years. ten years to make sure that we are preparing for a new economy – and we have to deliver on that. that means that europe needs to increase its ambition. i think that there is a bit of change with the new commission potentially, but i think it’s also very important that we do want to know what exactly they are going to say, what exactly are they going to do in that climate law? i think there you have an important role, because if i talk to the people of your dg, i don’t feel that there is this urgency. there will maybe be a climate law and then there will be a long set of deliberations on what to do after that. we expect europe to increase its ambition to at least -55% next year, before paris starts. that’s what people are asking for, the minimum to change; otherwise, the people on the streets will again be disappointed by the lack of action by the world, and certainly also by europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the real elephant in the room in this debate is the continued direct and indirect subsidies to fossil fuels, which are in total contradiction to the more ambitious objectives set by the european union: 5,300 billion dollars in 2015 globally, according to the international monetary fund, 231 billion in the european union. the commission itself acknowledges 55 billion a year and confirms that they have not decreased at all over time. we must go to the new york summit with concrete proposals, say 'stop' to subsidies for fossil fuels and abandon them altogether in the medium term, propose to redesign taxation, because it is simply absurd to treat goods in the same way which have different production processes and impacts on the environment and the climate. and we must go on to say that we do not need tariffs to defend european, american or chinese products but rather we need a fiscal levy with transparent criteria and environmental objectives, all of which is consistent with the idea of open markets and competition, to really reward those who innovate.
mr president, the european union and its member states are the leaders in development cooperation and that role is becoming even more important in these political times. the european union was the driving force at the un when the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdg) goals were shaped, and that is something to be proud of, but now it’s time for more action and more progress, especially on all sdg goals. i am very pleased to see that the commission president-elect seems ready to take more action and that all new commissioners should contribute to the sdg goals, but we need a broader commitment if we’re going to succeed in reaching the sdg goals and therefore i really look forward to going to the summit next week and co-chairing the delegation, because i think that the eu has a role, that we need to make sure to steer the policy in the right direction, and that means that we need to stand up for multilateralism and also a result-orientated european union development policy.
madam president, the ecb, the imf and the european commission formed the troika which intervened in portugal, greece and ireland. mrs lagarde - who is moving from the imf to the ecb - was a strong advocate of the so-called 'expansionary austerity' that inspired the troika programmes, programmes whose results were devastating from an economic and social point of view. now, in the face of disaster, mrs lagarde apologized with multipliers, but she didn't change her convictions. it has recently joined the european commission in warning portugal that it could not relax its budgetary policy, advocating the maintenance or strengthening of budgetary restrictions. this is the candidate that the right wing, the socialists and, surprisingly or perhaps not, the greens are preparing to support in this parliament. there is one certainty we have: in the next euro crisis, for lagarde and those who support her, some of the instruments are exhausted, wages and employment will be the adjustment factors. now, banking and currency are too serious to be under ms. lagarde's control just... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the euro is a strong currency used by 330 million europeans in 19 countries. this is a currency that covers 16.5% of the world's gross social income, 30% of world trade. in addition to a strong euro, we also need structural reforms at national level to ensure a stable policy, both economically and socially, and to give even greater stability to life within individual countries. we need strong banking systems in individual countries that will have no creditors and eventually bad banks, as we saw during the crisis. the euro and the central bank have already proven themselves in solving the problems in greece, in ireland, and i believe they will be able to meet the challenges in the years to come, even in the event of a crisis. mrs christine lagarde is a professional, experienced person who enjoys a great deal of trust, and she will therefore have my vote in the vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe is facing major economic challenges and at the same time we can see that monetary policy has its limitations and we must remember that. we can't say, like trump, that it's the federal reserve's fault or that it's the monetary policy's fault. we are seeing today that we have both historically low interest rates within the ecb area and that the buy-back programmes may not have had the effect we wanted all the time but have even led to increased inequality. you can't lower the interest rate that much further below zero and we also know that it has very little effect. this was stated by john maynard keynes 80 years ago. what remains is that we must take both debates and discussions and think hard in parliament about how we use fiscal policy. today it is little coordinated and sometimes not at all. it may even be counterproductive to monetary policy. if we are to succeed now, when we see the economy slowing down and we may even be heading into a recession, then we have to find ways to have fiscal policy that works together with monetary policy in the euro area and across europe. the challenges we face: climate, economy, social issues, migration, require more cooperation, not less cooperation.
madam president, i would like to express the regret of the euro group of the left that mrs lagarde has decided today to be absent and to snub the european parliament. perhaps it's common from the way he operated as head of the international monetary fund. but here the european central bank must strengthen democratic accountability. we cannot vote against mrs lagarde. as a group of the european left, we will not vote for her because we are opposed to the prescriptions she applied as head of the international monetary fund in countries such as greece, which have caused an incredible recession, three times as much unemployment and enormous social suffering. we are not convinced that he will implement positive policies. it is true, however, that in addition to the policies of the european central bank, it is time for the member states to implement an expansionary fiscal policy in favour of growth.
madam president, i support the appointment of ms lagarde to the european central bank because she is truly an expert of international repute. it is important to me that he is advocating the completion of the banking and monetary union and also that he wants to explain very complex monetary policy to people. i think people should be made aware of the basic pillars of our monetary policy. the czech republic does not yet have a single currency, the euro, but i see the euro as a valuable and stable currency. the thesis was that fiscal policy should always support growth. i would like to counter it with the thesis of the stability of the system, although the ecb has recently been using some unconventional tools, so the stability of the system is important to me and is linked to ms lagarde's name. so i'm definitely going to support her, and i'm very glad that the debate today is in her favor.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course the european central bank is important for economic development and monetary stability. ms christine lagarde has the necessary training and has presented to the committee the skills she possesses for this position. i have criticized and many of us have criticized the european central bank many times and rightly so because of the policies that it has had. i think that christine lagarde, if she gets the vote of parliament, she has new challenges ahead of her. i come from a country that is not in the euro zone, but nevertheless has the second highest growth rate in the european union, and i think the management that needs to be done now at the central bank, taking into account the forecasts of some experts, that a new financial crisis may come, is not to divide the european union into two: the euro zone and the non-euro zone. he has to think about how he can support, especially the small ones, the small and medium-sized enterprises, and how he can make policies that do not lead to that negative interest rate that his lordship ... (the president withdrew the speaker)... has assumed.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, as this house knows the commission is not involved in the appointment process of the president of the european central bank (ecb). we do, however, have a keen interest in this process and in listening carefully to your views on macroeconomic policymaking in the euro area and in the eu. we’re happy that the council named a person with all the relevant credentials to be a successful ecb president. we also welcome the fact that for the first time this person is a woman.
commissioner, a moment please, because this is very disrespectful. colleagues who have just entered the chamber, would you mind listening, or at least sitting down in your seats quietly, without conversation. and perhaps, commissioner, you could bring your microphone a little closer and we will try and resume your speech.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the new ecb president has a challenging task ahead, both in the immediate future and in the longer term. in the immediate future, in the event that ecb intervention is needed to avert a slowdown in economic activity, we share the view expressed by christine lagarde during her hearing that there is a need to reconsider whether the past overburdening of monetary policy can be improved upon by better support of structural reforms and fiscal policy. we also share the conviction that ...
commissioner, i am sorry. colleagues, i do not want to name and shame because i don’t know all of your names, but i would ask you please … colleagues to my right, i’m really sorry, i am trying to keep order. i’m not going to do ‘order, order!’ because i’m not in the house of commons – although i would love to have that same voice and influence. perhaps you would just please sit down quietly in your seats. commissioner dombrovskis is responding to our debate. i won’t resume the debate unless there is quiet. this is just not good enough.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we also share the conviction that the deepening of economic and monetary union will be beneficial for the functioning of the euro area, making it more resilient and it will also foster the international standing of the euro. after an exchange of views with the committee on economic and monetary affairs earlier this month on the candidacy of christine lagarde, it is clear that parliament also shares this assessment. i hope that this alignment of views will pave the way to continuing the excellent cooperation among the three institutions, in full respect of their respective roles, under the ecb presidency of christine lagarde.
thank you, vice-president, for your forbearance. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, 62% of eu citizens have a positive view of the functioning of the european economic and monetary union and the introduction of the euro. most countries outside the euro area still aim to join the euro as soon as possible, by fulfilling the conditions for adoption. given the current state of the world economy, with a continuing decline in economic growth and the risk of a new economic crisis, the need to join the single currency is all the more urgent. however, there are member states where the introduction of the euro is seen not as a fulfilment of an obligation under the eu treaties but as a political issue. while romania, croatia and bulgaria have an explicit target date for the introduction of the euro and are doing their utmost to join the euro area, some member states, including hungary, which have also committed to joining the single currency, do not yet have a target date for implementation. it is in the common interest of the european union and its citizens that there should be no excuse for staying out of the euro area for political reasons.
in writing. ms lagarde: i have to say that i am very pleased. in assessing his appointment as president of the ecb, we cannot but recall his role over the last eight years at the international monetary fund. you have imposed and supported economic policies which have worsened the situation of countries in difficulty. we are still thinking of the greek crisis and the imf's indications that they have increased unemployment and poverty by cutting public spending, from health to pensions. but the opposition to his appointment also stems from the few answers he gave us at the hearing. the failure of monetary policies in recent years to achieve the ecb's statutory objective is plain to see. the much-awaited inflation target of below but close to 2% is increasingly distant, signalling a sharp slowdown in the euro area economy. despite the accommodative monetary policy of recent years - rate cuts, ltro, tltro, quantitative easing - the malfunctioning of the transmission channels from monetary policy to the real economy is evident. the result is that the banking system has been flooded with liquidity, saving the euro and the banks, but leaving businesses and citizens on their knees. you have not provided any evidence to suggest a change of course. that is why my vote and that of my group is negative.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on foreign interference in the democratic processes of the member states and europe and related disinformation (2019/2810 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, almost four months have passed since the european parliament elections, which were combined in several member states with other elections. no major interference campaign was identified, but fact—checkers and academia have nonetheless flagged malicious activity from foreign sources to influence turnout and voter preferences. we have to be constantly prepared. we should make sustained efforts to raise awareness, increase preparedness and strengthen the resilience of our democracies to hybrid threats, including disinformation. this is a priority for our presidency. long-term efforts are needed to enhance the resilience of our democratic societies since disinformation and hybrid threats in general are a permanent part of our security environment. the evolving nature of the threats and the growing risk of malicious interference and online manipulation associated with the development of artificial intelligence and data-gathering techniques require continuous assessment and an appropriate response. the council welcomes the commission’s intention to conduct an in-depth evaluation of the implementation of commitments made by online platforms and other signatories under the code of practice. the council is monitoring the implementation in its working parties and will be ready to examine action that could be proposed by the commission by the end of the year. before the end of the year, we expect the commission report on the 2019 european parliament elections, which should pay particular attention to preparedness and resilience, geared to withstanding interference in elections. more broadly, it will be interesting to hear the thoughts of the commission on possible further initiatives it might take. we attach great importance to this subject, as has been repeatedly underlined by the european council, including in the new strategic agenda. the eu institutions and the member states have an important role to play, in terms of their respective remits, in the protection of democratic processes. this requires concerted efforts by the eu and the member states and also by civil society and the private sector. our response has to be comprehensive, with the focus on both the internal and external dimensions of the threat. since the conclusions the council adopted in march on securing free and fair european elections, which welcomed the commission electoral package and the joint action plan against disinformation, much has been done both by the eu institutions and in individual member states: the organisation of regular meetings of the european election cooperation network, in which member states share expertise and good practice and jointly identify threats; the setting up of the rapid alert system whereby national contact points in member states rapidly share information on disinformation campaigns; the enhancement of strategic communication on european values and policies; the strengthening of the european media ecosystem by facilitating networks of independent fact-checkers; the promotion of media and digital literacy and awareness-raising activities to protect the integrity of the electoral process, together with the private sector and civil society; the assessment of cyber-threats in the electoral context and of the measures to address them and preserve the integrity of the electoral system; the monitoring, as already mentioned, of the implementation by social media platforms of the code of practice; and, finally, cooperation with the relevant international actors. so much has been done. to contribute to these efforts, the romanian presidency prepared a report to the last european council on countering disinformation and on the lessons learned from the european elections. continuing that work, one of the top priorities of our presidency is to enhance the resilience of our democratic societies against foreign interference, through coordinated and coherent action across all relevant policy fields in order to strengthen the comprehensive security of our citizens. i want to underline that all this work to protect our open, democratic societies must be carried out while fully respecting the fundamental rights of our citizens, including freedom of expression. in this context, our presidency places particular emphasis on strengthening the eu’s capabilities in countering hybrid threats and building resilience in the eu and member states. already in july, a permanent council working party with a horizontal mandate was established and held its first meeting. it is also essential to continue developing partnerships, especially our cooperation with nato. the helsinki-based european centre of excellence for countering hybrid threats also contributes to fostering cooperation in this field. disinformation strategies by foreign state and non-state actors are also deployed beyond our eu borders. alongside tackling the problem within the union, the action plan against disinformation outlines our significant interest in working with partners in the eu’s eastern and southern neighbourhood and in the western balkans. exposing disinformation and strengthening media, information and digital-literacy skills in our neighbourhood are key elements in this regard. we need to act together in a structured and coordinated way in order to tackle these challenges. protecting elections is at the core of defending our european values.
member of the commission. – mr president, respect for democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law are the three common values which bind the union together. we should not take them for granted. president—elect von der leyen has announced that protecting european democracy will be a priority for her commission. she underlined that our democratic systems have come increasingly under attack from those who wish to divide and destabilise the union. therefore, we need to do more to protect ourselves from external influences. the spread of disinformation and the influence of dark money affect policymaking processes by skewing public opinion and distorting the debate. domestic and foreign actors can exploit this to manipulate policy, societal debates and behaviour in areas such as climate change, migration, public security, health and finance. manipulation can also diminish trust in science and empirical evidence. the conduct of free and fair elections is primarily the responsibility of member states. nevertheless, a european approach is necessary, given the cross-border dimension of efforts to manipulate democracy and the importance of joining efforts to address the threats. what affects one member state can affect all. through the electoral package in september 2018, the commission took determined action to support member states’ efforts to protect the integrity of elections and combat disinformation. implementing the package, the commission encouraged national electoral networks to identify best practices for the management of risks to the electoral process. cooperation between member states was fostered by the newly established european cooperation network on elections, which allowed exchange of best practices and creation of operational links between member states. the network met four times in the run—up to the elections and had a first stocktaking meeting immediately after the elections. it brought together representatives from the national networks, who had fruitful exchanges among themselves and with representatives of other institutions, including parliament and civil society. its activities cover all aspects of this complex area, from exchanges on awareness—raising for citizens and cooperation with platforms, to the mapping of legal instruments applicable to foreign funding. it also included a table—top exercise at european level to help member states assess and potentially strengthen their resilience to cyber—attacks. member states engaged actively in the european cooperation network and expressed their desire for both the national and the european networks to continue their work beyond the european elections in order to support member states’ efforts to increase the resilience of their electoral systems. our preliminary assessment on the implementation of these efforts in the context of the recent european elections is quite encouraging. the coordinated eu approach helped to ensure stronger preparedness and coordination in the fight against manipulation and disinformation. as was done for previous elections, we are currently conducting a thorough examination of the conduct of the elections to the european parliament. we are also cooperating with international partners through a range of forums, including nato and the g7, as well as with individual states. this reflects a comprehensive and coordinated approach among democracies to tackle disinformation and foster resilient electoral processes. international cooperation ensures that the tools and unique capabilities of all actors act in unison, in full respect of fundamental rights, in particular the freedom of expression and of association. as announced by president—elect von der leyen, the commission – if confirmed by parliament – will aim to put forward a european democracy action plan addressing the threats of external intervention in our european elections. if confirmed in the vice—president role by this house, i will coordinate the work on this plan. building up the resilience of our democratic systems and countering of disinformation and fake information are necessities of our current situation. not less important, the freedoms of expression and of the press in the landscape of media pluralism will also be pursued and protected by the next commission. in all these efforts – again, if confirmed in my future role by this house – i will work closely with parliament, with the member states, with citizens and with stakeholders on protecting and nurturing democracy in europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m going to focus on the challenge of disinformation. as we’ve already heard, fortunately during the recent european parliamentary elections, there was no large-scale, coordinated disinformation attack. but that does not mean, unfortunately, that those elections were a disinformation free zone. they were not. there are myriad reports from across europe of different sorts of disinformation. for example, to take an example from another member state, let’s take an example from germany. there are well-researched reports that show that online promotion for one of the german parties represented up to 86% of all party activity on facebook. four times the comments, six times the shares of all other political parties combined. many of these likes and shares came from a cluster of 80 000 suspicious accounts, with random two-letter first and last names, that each mutually liked hundreds and thousands of pieces of content. large-scale automated propaganda and disinformation is unfortunately a fact. it’s a fact of our modern political life, and if the platforms can’t figure out that thousands of coordinated accounts with random two-letter names are suspicious, then we have a problem. i don’t know about you but i don’t think we can accept this as the new normal. we need to do more to work together to close down the space in which hostile and bad actors are trying to do this disinformation and to build our resilience to make it harder to do and to allow us to resist its impact. which is why we, together with the member states and a number of other partners, have been working on at least four areas. first, as has been mentioned, we’ve established a rapid alert system bringing the eu institutions and the member states together to work to spot and tackle coordinated disinformation campaigns. we’re working to reinforce this mechanism. we’re doing a series of consultations at the moment to enhance how we do information exchange between the member states, the institutions and with the platforms, as well as civil society researchers, and to build a strengthened hub for research and analytics of disinformation. second, over the past two years in fact, we have mobilised a community of fact checkers, researchers and civil society, to help detect and analyse disinformation campaigns and to discuss how we design our responses. to boost the impact of this work, of this community, we will soon deploy a new european online platform to bring together 38 fact-checking organisations from across 17 member states, working on this platform funded through the connecting europe facility programme. but if they’re going to do this work effectively, we also need the platforms to play their part. we need them to provide secure access to data for these trusted fact checkers and researchers to enable them to do their research, to enable us together to unlock better responses. all the time, of course, making sure that we respect the necessary ethical and professional standards, which brings me to the third point we’ve been working on. we’ve pushed the big internet platforms to sign up to a code of practice on disinformation, as has already been set out. we finalised that work in september last year. the initial signatories – facebook, google, twitter, mozilla, trade associations from the advertising sector – have, i’m glad to say, now been joined also by microsoft. so this is a serious group of people. they took together a list of commitments – 15 different commitments – and we are monitoring the performance against those commitments. by the middle of september – anytime now – we are going to see the signatories deliver their own self assessment to us. then we are going to work with a number of third-party consultants to deliver an independent third-party review of performance against those commitments by the middle of october. building on those reports, we’d expect to communicate our overview of where we are on implementation of the code before the end of october. then the final step, our full assessment, will come in the form of a commission communication which is planned to be published at the beginning of next year after further consultations with independent experts as well as member states in the european regulators group for audiovisual media services. as commissioner jourová, as i and as commissioner gabriel have said on a number of occasions, should the results prove unsatisfactory we think that we need to look – or be ready to look – at further actions, including, if necessary, the possibility of regulation. indeed there have already been a number of proposals, legislative and otherwise, put forward in various member states. for example the uk government has set out its intentions in the online harms white paper, while in france there’s a push for a framework to make platforms more accountable. we encourage the member states in these efforts and stand ready to assist where we can. fourth and finally, we have worked to empower citizens, including by promoting, as we’ve heard, media literacy and increasing awareness across society on the positive impact of eu policies, union values, to strengthen our citizens’ resilience against the negative effects of disinformation. overall i think i’d have to say that we’ve done some good work. we’ve come some way, but frankly there remains a lot still to be done, which is why, like věra jourová, i’m very pleased to see that the incoming commission, the incoming president-elect, have underlined the importance of this work. in addition to the point that’s already been mentioned, if confirmed it’s in the programme, the president-elect has said that she wants to bring forward legislation for a coordinated european approach on the human and ethical implications of ai, which would be very relevant to this debate, and she’s proposed a new digital services act to upgrade liability and safety rules for digital platforms, services and products – again, very relevant to this debate. and these efforts, combined with the others that we have been discussing, are going to be absolutely key if we are to ensure a prosperous, safe and democratic digital future for all our citizens. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this debate is about fundamental european values. it’s about the rule of law, freedom and our democratic elections. i think it’s very important that this parliament, after this debate, comes together with a very strong resolution. it’s very important that in europe we stand up for free and democratic elections without interference from foreign states. unfortunately, that is not the situation in europe today and i think it’s important that the european parliament is not afraid to talk very clearly about this. it is very well known that russia in particular is conducting a low intense information war against europe. their state—sponsored media and their troll factories try to undermine democratic debates in europe. but we also see other totalitarian states, such as china, iran and north korea, trying to weaken our democratic decision—making. i think it is important that we try to defend our values and make sure that, if you are aggressive towards our democratic institutions, there must also be consequences. in this plenary we disagree a lot. it’s called democracy. it is ok to disagree, but i think it’s very important that we agree that if we leave democratic decision—making open to foreign interference, we will also lose our self—determination. so i think it’s important that we come together in a common resolution in the coming weeks and stand up for european values.
mr president, i would like to thank you. foreign interference in democratic processes is reprehensible. it is reprehensible when the kremlin tries to buy influence through european parties, as well as when it hires former social democrat heads of government to lobby for nord stream, for example. but it is also reprehensible when the eu uses taxpayers' money to influence the outcome of the european parliament elections. this leaked document from the leadership of the european parliament shows how it planned to spend 350 million kronor to, for example, sponsor lobby groups and campaigns such as "this is what the eu does for me" in order to get eu federalist voters to the polls and reduce the influence of voters if they preferred nation-states over federalism. so let's work against undue interference in democratic processes. but let's be consistent.
in writing. in recent years, several elections have been subject to external manipulation and electoral rules have been breached in several member states. in 2020, more than 50 different elections will be held in the eu member states and foreign influence will continue to be a challenge. in addition to disrupting elections, disinformation erodes trust in the public and in public debate. studies show that manipulation is often used to sow division in society, by singling out certain groups as a threat. minority groups are particularly frequently targeted. these disinformation campaigns are not only coming from outside but are also being used by extremist groups and parties within europe to strengthen their positions. in the long term, this threatens democratic society and i believe more needs to be done. i support the commission's action and believe that the internet giants need to take greater responsibility for the way hate, threats and false information are spread on their respective networks.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the amazon is on fire. it is an urgent crisis and a matter of concern to the whole world. brazil's president, bolsonaro, has shown that he will not take the climate challenge and the deforestation of the amazon seriously on his own. on the contrary, he has previously said that he wants to withdraw from the paris agreement together with donald trump, but protests from the outside world, including the eu, have made an impression. do we really want to take responsibility for the climate? do we want to work together to enforce the paris agreement? if we want to save the amazon, we simply have to use the best tools we have. the trade agreement between the eu and mercosur is important both for us and for brazil economically. but it also gives us a very unique opportunity to both pressure and incentivize the brazilian government to take climate responsibility. modern trade agreements with clear sustainability requirements are one of the best and most effective tools we have. let's use them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change must be undertaken on a global scale, which implies coordinated action. the forest is an essential element in this fight. sustainability should be the key word, which also means solidarity. as regards the amazon forest, we must not forget that it covers 5 million square kilometres, nine countries, not just brazil, and, speaking of fires, unfortunately we also have them here in the european union and we should be setting an example for the rest of the world. fires that have even led, as in the case of my country in 2017, unfortunately to the loss of more than 100 people in terms of human lives. the european union, in addition to being an example, must seek prevention - and that is the key - and must collaborate, must cooperate, by financing programmes, by financing funds so that in the amazon and in other forests, there is respect for human rights, for sustainability, which is a cause that concerns us all.
mr president, the forest fires have also served as a reminder of the sustainability chapter of the mercosur agreement and the importance of the paris climate agreement, which is also part of the agreement. we must ensure that the principles of sustainable development and the standards agreed on in mercosur are respected in the implementation of the agreement. we must create the conditions for trade to be satisfactory to all parties. the eu can also set an example for brazil. the recent commission communication on deforestation shows that our forest resources in the eu are only increasing. it's because of sustainable forest management and the versatile use of wood. we can be very proud that our member states are managing their forests in a good and sustainable way. however, the debate on forestry issues in this parliament is very fragmented and needs more coordination. this is why, among other things, the update of the forest strategy is more timely and important than ever.
madam president, i would like to thank you. last week i had the opportunity to meet two representatives of the huni kuin tribe in the amazon who had seen their village burned down. their fight against the fires must be our common fight. the amazon is still burning. meanwhile, president bolsonaro is threatening to withdraw from the paris agreement and continue and even expand the slaughter. this deforestation of the amazon must stop now! it's one of the most absolutely sensitive parts of the entire climate system on our planet. the eu should not prioritise increased imports of soya and meat when it affects indigenous peoples and rainforests. in the negotiations for a new major trade agreement, we must therefore set clear and tough demands on the mercosur countries. what i would like to know from the commission is how they can get these countries to choose from now on between acting to protect the rainforest or missing out on european trade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon is burning, and if the land that produces 20% of the oxygen we breathe is burning, so is an immense heritage of cultures, peoples and biodiversity. deforestation, like fires, is certainly caused by men, by leaders who endorse the exploitation of resources and people, an exploitation based on an old and wrong idea of capitalism, without sustainability that promotes the well-being of all. there's a phrase, an expression in the native language that i can't say, that really speaks to "living well". the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. and i ask myself, why should we not have the courage to revise the mercosur agreement to include stricter criteria of environmental sustainability? and why do we not have the courage to say that we cannot do the environmentalist, as some say, with the forests of other countries, of countries that want to have a development path? it is also our problem and i think europe should contribute to a plan for reforestation.
madam president, between 1990 and 2016, we lost 1.3 million square kilometers of forest. that's about 800 football fields an hour. this disaster is due to the global demand for food and animal feed. we import genetically modified soybeans, encouraging the massive use of pesticides to feed our animals. what is the european commission doing? on the one hand, it proposes a strategy for protecting forests and even reforesting them, but on the other hand, the cap encourages intensive agriculture and the massive importation of animal feed. the commission is also proposing a free trade agreement, mercosur, which will worsen the situation. the amazon burned for weeks, over such a vast area that it could be seen from space. we also have our share of responsibility. let's be consistent, block deforestation products and stop encouraging president bolsonaro to sacrifice the amazon forest and its inhabitants to the agro-industrial sector.
mr president, all of us in this room are calling for urgent measures to manage the amazon sustainably because if the destruction exceeds 30%, the situation will not be reversible. the bolsonaro government, instead of continuing the sustainable management plan that has been in place since 2014, has encouraged the overexploitation of land and turned a blind eye to the disaster. in this context, the agreement between the european union and mercosur can be a powerful tool for the protection of the amazon rainforest. it's a fair trade agreement, it's an agreement linked to the paris agreement and it actually urges brazil to reforest 12 million hectares. fires, unfortunately, in the amazon we've had for many years. but now, at least we have a medium of pressure. and whoever violates the paris agreement must also violate the mercosur agreement. but we have no pressure measures for siberia, africa or indonesia. we need a comprehensive proposal for sustainable forest management and tools to promote it outside the european union. instead of exhausting their sensitivity, the gue group's colleagues ... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker. )
mr president, for the past few weeks, the world has watched in horror as massive fires engulf large sections of the amazon, siberia, alaska, greece – the list goes on. against the backdrop of unprecedented climate change and deforestation at levels we have not seen before, the earth’s lungs are quickly filling with smoke. we have now moved from a climate emergency to a climate catastrophe, and the world deserves a better response than schoolyard political sniping games on twitter. the entire system is flawed. our habits and our throwaway society, coupled with populist political short—termism, will have tragic consequences on the lives and the health of our children and their children. when all the evidence shows us that the way we are consuming our natural resources on our planet is unsustainable, we have to have the courage to take the tough decisions we need. we did it with plastic. we managed to push through a ban of some of the worst products, but it is time to go further, and europe can be the global leader in this. when greta thunberg, as the voice of her generation, asked politicians to panic, she was right and now it is up to us whether we panic by running into a wall or taking drastic action. that’s the choice we face.
mr president, i would like to thank you. last summer we suffered from major forest fires in sweden and the support from the member states proved invaluable to us. our polish friends sent us 139 firefighters to rescue us. just like forest fires around the world, it was a huge problem for people, for animals, and for nature. that's why i feel for the brazilian people. but i also note that there was no campaign or debate in the world to stop trading with sweden, just because our forests were burning. it is therefore wrong, as the left is doing now, to use this tragic disaster to stop the free trade agreement between the eu and mercosur. so let me be clear. blocking the free trade agreement will not put out any fires in the amazon or improve the climate. on the contrary, the mercosur agreement commits brazil and the other countries to respect and implement the paris agreement and to work towards sustainable forestry. we're gonna use trade as a carrot. then we create sustainable development and prosperity through more work, through higher growth that makes both goods and services cheaper. i therefore call on all the governments of the member states and on my colleagues in this house to contribute to ratification as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, for three years, the brexit hardliners have had no plan for how they want to leave the european union. we warn you in this house that no deal will affect everyone. the european union guarantees equality between men and women in employment law, workers' rights, maternity protection, parttime work, parental leave and trade union rights. with a hard brexit, that guarantee will be lost. the biggest losers from no-deal will be women in the uk in particular. they are not as mobile as men, they are more likely to be in social work, they are more likely to be in health care, they are more likely to be in commerce, and they are more likely to be on welfare for themselves and their families. so, as long as we can reach out, we should. a helping hand is always better than the cynical, self-destructive come-what-may-come mentality.
madam president, i think that the brexit thriller has some similarities with the grexit thriller in 2015 and boris johnson, although he is completely different from a political point of view, has some similarities in his tactics with alexis tsipras. both put the party's interest above the national interest. both of them pretended for a while to be negotiating, when, in fact, they were going back and forth between the capitals. both of them pretended that they didn't care about the consequences of their actions and that they had no sense of risk. but tsipras, in his honour, did a last, if only momentary, u-turn, under pressure from us, under pressure from the harsh reality and with the help of president juncker. unfortunately, i do not think mr johnson will follow mr tsipras's good example and i do not think he will improve his policy. i think we should therefore be watching the british parliament, the british people and the british youth and sending them the message that we are with them.
madam chairman! thank you for that. britain is leaving the european union. i personally find that very regrettable, but it is the british decision and we must of course respect it. but how regrettable - indeed almost inexcusable - it is that this announcement should be made in such a way that it becomes a hard brexit. it has huge implications for an incredible number of people on both sides of the channel. it's going to cost jobs, it's going to affect families and students, it's going to affect our research. i urge that we give it a little more time so that we can find a solution to brexit, so that it does not have to be a hard brexit, but that we can deal with it in a way that does not harm our citizens and our businesses. i shall therefore vote in favour of the resolution which means that we are calling for a little more time to negotiate an agreement. let's not have a hard brexit, it's not in anyone's interest. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is a lot to be said about brexit, but i will confine myself to two points. my first point concerns trade relations. the uk is sweden's fifth largest trading partner and this trade is of course creating jobs and prosperity throughout europe. but in just 43 days and about 13 and a half hours, we risk a hard brexit and this would of course hit jobs and reduce our prosperity. i am also glad that there are provisions in the resolution to extend the deadline. at the same time, it is good that there are conditions attached to this extension, but i think we should interpret the terms of the extension as generously as possible now that we have received a request from the british. i would prefer the uk to remain in the union, but whatever the future relationship between the eu and the uk, i will fight to make sure that our trade relations are as good as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the situation in britain is serious. in a few weeks, brexit could mean that britain actually crashes out of the eu. a no-deal brexit will seriously damage both british and european interests, but also my swedish interests. we know the consequences. for both people and businesses, the consequences of a hard brexit will be very significant. in my country, for example, we have 1 000 000 swedes who are in the uk to work or study and who are worried about their future every day. for all britons, it is also a very uncertain future. the european parliament's resolution is very balanced and it stresses the important demands we have made in the past for a withdrawal. the agreement is there, and with a clear political declaration, we can protect our future. i would urge boris johnson to take the responsibility that comes with being in government! look after the country!
madam president, i would like to thank you. the world is on fire, the gaps are wide and human rights are threatened in many places. i am proud of my social democrat-led government in sweden, which is sticking to its one per cent aid target. but it is high time that all eu countries follow through on their promise of 0.7 percent. as shadow rapporteur on the committee on development, i would like to make a few points which i hope can be given more priority in the external sphere, in the context of a modern, responsible and balanced budget. we must work more together on human rights and tackle the shrinking democratic space faced by civil society. we must invest more in women's rights and in sexual and reproductive health and rights. we need to focus more on climate, which is the common destiny of our time, and we cannot back down as humanitarian actors as the world's crises increase and could force even more people to flee. and finally, there are only 10 years left until we all have to reach the un's sustainability goals. what we do and prioritize here, now, during our term of office, can be decisive.
writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking all the groups and their representatives for the excellent cooperation and good negotiations that have kept this resolution very focused on what is important and what is happening at the moment. this resolution is not just about the fact that the chp's local chairman in istanbul, who won the istanbul city election, has been sentenced to nine years and eight months in prison for posts on social media. posts that in other countries would have received no legal sanctions. it also concerns the deposed mayors of the cities of diyarbakir, mardin and van. this resolution also points to a concern we have from the european parliament about the deeper, broader problem of the challenges to democracy, of the persecution of human rights, of the persecution of opposition politicians, of the abuse of power, of the abuse of the use of anti-terrorism legislation. turkey is an important country for the eu. but it will also be a key challenge in the eu's foreign policy. i hope we will not have to have a long series of such resolutions on turkey. but i am prepared, and the renew group is prepared, to bring turkey up again and again when human rights are violated, when the rule of law and democratic principles are violated. i hope that we in the european parliament today will vote 'yes' to this resolution and i hope that we will support the democratic development in turkey and the democratic forces.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union as an institution and we parliamentarians as elected representatives of the people, we must speak as it is. what is happening and has been happening for years, months and many, many long periods of time in turkey is a violation of human rights and of international agreements. hundreds of democratically elected mayors and politicians, students, academics and political activists who have used their democratic right to raise their voices have been imprisoned and accused of terrorism and of being enemies of turkey. we greens call on the turkish authorities to release immediately and unconditionally the detainees and drop the charges against them. and we remind erdoğan that we see you. we see what you're doing and we will continue to resist because history has taught us that we have no other choice.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yesterday i was a witness at the trial of selahattin demirtaş, the former kurdish hdp co-chairman, against the turkish state at the european court of human rights. the council of europe's hr commissioner made it clear that there are serious shortcomings in the turkish legal system, to say the least. according to the 2018 compilation of the committee to protect journalists, turkey has the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the world. in addition, a few weeks ago, the three hdp mayors of the kurdish cities of diyarbakir, mardin and van were forcibly sacked, less than five months after the local elections in turkey. and during this very session, i received a text message that yesterday, more mayors were forcibly removed from office in diyarbakir province. like many others, they are accused of terrorism, although they have worked peacefully for democracy and freedom for all people in the country. it is important that we in the european parliament, which is an important voice in the struggle for a democratic and equal world, raise our voices and demand the release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in theory, there are many reasons to be patient with turkey. it is a formal candidate country which has also dealt with and played a major role in the migration crisis which has challenged our member states. but eventually you get to a point where your patience runs out. many of us have hoped for a positive development in turkey and for the stabilisation of democratic institutions. after the coup attempt in 2016, the situation has become increasingly untenable. erdoğan and the akp show no signs of change waiting elsewhere. we live in a time when we risk being blinded by seemingly repetitive news updates about the same country. my concern is that reports of the erosion of the rule of law, the dismantling of democratic institutions and the imprisonment of dissenters are not even getting our attention, at a time when we are constantly bombarded by messages and likes from our screens. the removal of the mayor elected on march 31 this year is just the latest example of how erdoğan is stretching the boundaries and testing our patience. an example that should not go unnoticed. for turkey is not just any country; turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union and there must be a limit to how far one can move away from democratic principles and still be considered on the road to full eu membership.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, since 2000 more than 700 000 of the rohingya people have been forced to abandon their homes in myanmar to become refugees in bangladesh, and we know that the armed forces continue to cause widespread terror in the rohingya community through committing appalling human rights violations. these include killings burnings of villages and systematic gender-based violence. we know that the myanmar authorities enabled these crimes by continuously turning a blind eye and by refusing to hold those responsible accountable. by creating telecommunication blackouts in the northern and central parts of rakhine state, making media coverage and access impossible, and by refusing to collaborate with un mechanisms. and we also know that approximately 40% of the rohingya refugees situated in camps in bangladesh are children, who are now forced to grow up in overcrowded refugee camps, without hope and without a future. i myself did a field trip to myanmar together with unicef two years ago, and without access to formal education the future of rohingya children is disappearing right before their eyes. the politicians of myanmar are not protecting the rohingya people either. mr president, we all know the saying, ‘all it takes for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing’. last century europe suffered the horrible consequences of the holocaust, when good men did nothing. in the case of the rohingyas, the politicians of myanmar need to do more and we need to do more.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in recent months, the iranian authorities have taken further steps to increase the repression of women in iran. for example, in april this year, women's rights activists mojgan keshavarz, monireh arabshahi and yasaman ariyani were arrested after they posted a video of themselves without a veil handing out flowers to passengers on the subway in iran. for this so-called offense distributing flowers in clothes they had chosen they were sentenced to between 16 and 24 years in prison. the european parliament must be united in condemning the misogynist regime in iran. the eu must always be a crystal clear voice for the human rights and freedoms of girls and women. it's 2019 now! everyone must have power over their own lives and their own bodies!
mr president, i would like to thank you. imagine your sister burning herself to death in protest against a regime that has stifled all her joy in life. imagine your daughter being sentenced to 20 years in prison just for her refusal to wear the veil. you'd appreciate the support of the outside world. instead, the world's first feminist government is wearing a veil on a visit to iran. on swedish soil, the iranian foreign minister's refusal to shake hands with his female counterpart is accepted. when we conservatives point out that in sweden we have been holding women by the hand since time immemorial, we are met with ignorant claims that iranians do not hold women by the hand, which is sheer nonsense. women oppressed in the name of islam deserve the wholehearted support of the outside world. that is why we must stand up for western values in the face of the barbaric regime in tehran and we must stop wearing the symbol of women's oppression just to be the mullahs of the law!
the president, commissioner. yesterday, at the opening of the public forum of the world trade organization, the well-known and renowned american economist jeffrey sachs said that it is absolutely the intention of the trump administration to completely undermine the world trade organization's global trading system, which is based on common values and rules. and he does. we are aware of all the problems with the appellate body of the world trade organisation and it is therefore particularly bizarre and particularly cynical that the very same government should use the ruling of the world trade organisation to impose additional tariffs. the second bizarre observation is, of course, the nature of the tariffs: it is important to note that the aim is absolutely to divide europe into the different tariffs in the different member states. my message to you, commissioner, and also to the new commission, is therefore very clear: let's not get divided. let us take a common position and not be naive. negotiation is good, but if it does not lead to anything, europe will also have to face punishment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, negotiating a trade war is our priority. but the main objective at this point must be to help our companies before the american tariffs fall on them, because among the many products in the crosshairs - sausages, fruit, cheese - there are the very food excellence of our territories. i would therefore ask the commission how it intends to support the farms concerned financially and whether it can commit itself to allocating specific funds to them under the common agricultural policy. the commission has already found one billion euros for the mercosur agreement. it is urgent to do the same for us tariffs and to reshape the use of the globalisation fund to help businesses. this crisis must be a great opportunity to show that only a coordinated european approach will enable us to deal with this threat. this is the moment to show everyone, and especially the united states, how strong europe is when it is united and when it defends its excellence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our exports are under attack, and even more so our agri-food products, which, after the crisis caused by the russian embargo, are once again paying the price of trade retaliation decided by others. commissioner, we cannot be caught off guard. what strategy has the commission foreseen in order to avoid a market crisis which would seriously affect our parmesan, our oil and our wine? we must show that we are standing by our citizens and our businesses and, as a first step, we must ensure that there is a sufficiently long transition period before any tariffs are applied, avoiding immediate trade shocks for our producers. but that can't be enough. we call for the necessary procedures to be initiated immediately to activate the crisis reserve provided for in the common agricultural policy to deal with these situations. the commissioner-designate wojciechowski himself told us this in the committee on agriculture. and then we must strengthen the promotion package to help our farmers. we need ambitious choices, commissioner, to protect strategic production adequately from an economic and social point of view.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the us measures of increased tariffs on a number of european goods are a serious problem for union exports. nevertheless, they are perfectly legal, because they come from a world trade organization court decision. then we must respect this. although this is negative for the eu, it is actually proof that the dispute settlement system within the wto is working. it should give the united states a reason to rethink the future of the court of appeals. today, the united states does not appoint new judges to the court, which puts it at risk of being closed down. however, there is still a chance of resolving the blockage in the court of appeal and the eu must use all the possibilities to do so. we need a rules-based trading system in the world. that is why we must try to reduce the level of conflict with the united states. we in europe, and particularly in my home country of sweden, depend on good trade relations with the outside world. through the free trade system we create the conditions for new jobs, for competitiveness and for prosperity.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. turkey's invasion of northern syria is a violation of international law. the risk of a humanitarian catastrophe is high. civilian lives on both sides of the border are at stake. people many children may be forced to flee. president trump's green card to president erdoğan is yet another of the us's betrayals of the kurds. the fight against isis would not have been possible if it wasn't for the kurds. the eu cannot accept - we must not accept - what is actually happening. mrs mogherini, will you ensure that the eu uses all the means at its disposal to stop the abuse and prevent another humanitarian catastrophe? in 2017, the eu sold arms licences to turkey for more than eur 2,8 billion. will you work to ensure that eu member states stop arms exports to turkey? erdoğan wants to move 2 million syrian refugees to the region that he has now invaded. he wants to build a human shield against syria. will you, mrs mogherini, work to stop the eu from paying the remaining 3 billion that the eu has pledged to pay for turkey's migration management? we greens demand that the eu use all the means at its disposal. we must stand up for the kurdish people.
in writing. in the five years since the situation in ukraine escalated and this neighbor of ours was attacked by russia, the european union has been the partner that has helped ukraine the most. not only with record loans, but also with the opening of the market, the introduction of visa-free travel, but also with expert advice on the most pressing issues, such as judicial reform, the fight against corruption, energy or other areas. the european union is not a military pact and our assistance can only be civil. but as important as fighting the aggressor is restructuring the functioning of the state, which has not been reformed in the last 30 years. our ukrainian partners are very appreciative of this assistance and it is producing results. one of them is that this year there has been a peaceful transfer of power and the new government wants to continue the pro-european direction of the country. mrs mogherini has a lot to be thankful for. our efforts should now focus on finally establishing a ceasefire in ukraine, with russia withdrawing its troops and beginning the process of re-incorporating the separatist regions back into ukraine. however, it is striking that there is almost no mention of crimea, which was illegally taken from ukraine. the european union should speak much more clearly in this regard and raise this issue in every negotiation with the russian side.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to contribute to this debate. this discussion is timely as tomorrow this house will vote on draft resolutions objecting to the authorisation of two new genetically modified maize varieties and the renewal of an authorisation for a genetically modified soya bean, all for food and feed use. first let me state clearly: the european union authorisation system for authorisation of genetically modified organisms has been established by european union law. through such legislation the commission has received from the council and parliament a delegation of power to implement the system, but with little or no margin for manoeuvre. the commission is bound to apply the law and parliament can only expect the commission to respect european union law. respect for the rule of law is a guarantee of fundamental rights and freedom within the eu and no institution should be blamed for abiding by the law. this does not mean that the commission does not hear or listen to concerns and it is important to understand all of them, as some are very important. this is why at the beginning of this mandate this commission proposed to the council and parliament to change the legislation on gmos, in particular in light of the numerous objections voted on by the european parliament. unfortunately the last parliament rejected the commission’s proposal, without suggesting any amendment. this was clearly a lost opportunity and at the same time a clear instruction to the commission to continue applying the existing law. this is what we have done. second, the existing european union law establishes a system which is science-based and relies on a scientific assessment performed by the european food safety authority, independently of the commission. both the quality and the independence of the european food safety authority ensure that human and animal health and the environment are protected within the european union at a high level with little equivalent worldwide. the commission only proposes to authorise genetically modified organisms when the european food safety authority (efsa) has confirmed their safety for humans, animals and the environment. in relation to the authorisations to be voted on tomorrow, efsa has concluded that they are as safe as their non-genetically modified comparators with respect to the potential effects on human and animal health and the environment. as foreseen in european union law, the member states voted in these proposals for authorisation in the standing committee. however, the vote showed no qualified majority in favour of or against the approvals. in accordance with the rules on comitology, as adopted by the co-legislators, parliament and the council, and the regulation on genetically modified food and feed, the commission presented the draft decisions to the appeal committee, where again no opinion was reached. i would like to make it clear here that, under european union law, without such an opinion the commission needs to take a decision alone. it does not have the luxury of having no opinion. it is not the commission’s possibility. what is also sometimes frustrating is that member states vote behind closed doors and the commission is not entitled to disclose individual member state’s vote. here again, this commission has considered the situation where member states hide behind the commission as very disappointing and unsatisfactory. for that reason, the commission has proposed to both the council and parliament to modify european union legislation on comitology, so as to ensure more transparency. unfortunately, little progress has been made on this proposal and i regret this situation because making the commission a scapegoat can be harmful to europe. overall, i hope i have demonstrated that the commission has processed the applications for these gmos in full compliance with the procedures set out by the co-legislators and that the commission has fulfilled its duty. allow me to recall that the right of scrutiny of the european parliament concerns the questions of whether the draft implementing act exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the basic acts. this is clearly not the case. the commission has faithfully implemented the eu law, and therefore i fail to see the legal assessment that would justify the planned objectives. i would be interested to hear on which legal grounds the objection could be based. finally, let me conclude by stating the obvious. genetically modified organisms are a sensitive issue. citizens and members of this parliament have very strong and diverse views, not based solely on science. some have concerns: there is a real and serious need to discuss which concerns can be considered as legitimate. legitimate concerns are a very important area and it would be good to know from parliament’s side, what does it mean by ‘legitimate concerns’. at the same time, european union agriculture is highly dependent on imports of genetically modified feed and this is simply a fact that cannot be ignored or dismissed, and we know that member states that always abstain, they know that. it is important, therefore, to move away from sterile fights. blame-games between eu institutions can only fuel euroscepticism. i would call for an open, honest and genuine discussion on our agricultural model, including its sustainability. i genuinely hope this can happen in the future, perhaps as part of the green deal and as a new farm to fork strategy.
for the ppe group. mr president we all want to reduce emissions and protect the environment and the climate. then we also need to think about how to make farming more efficient. in this context, plant breeding will play an important role, regardless of what our political opponents think. i can only say that efsa has carried out a risk assessment of these crops and has concluded that they are no more dangerous than their conventional counterparts. that is the assessment which the commission has taken into account and therefore it has not exceeded its mandate. the central question is: are we going to listen to the science or are we not going to listen to the science? then i must ask those who oppose this proposal: what are we to listen to if we do not believe and trust the science and the statement that ephsa has made? i can't help but regret that people seem to ignore it. we think this is still an important issue for the climate and how we will be able to grow in the future.
the commission proposal on the multiannual financial framework in the smaller and less developed member states has rightly aroused great dissatisfaction. the new priorities send the wrong message that the reduction of the development gap between member states is being abandoned and that common resources are being redirected towards objectives important to large and influential member states. how else can we explain the reduction in cohesion spending while at the same time strengthening the role of cohesion policy in the long-term integration of migrants? i come from croatia, a country that has a problem primarily with the emigration of its young and able-bodied population. we need more cohesion funds to reach european standards. it is also important for us to preserve rural life and to increase the competitiveness of agriculture, which we will not be able to do with less money for the common agricultural policy. this proposal cements the status quo and divides the union into first- and second-tier members. that division is absolutely unacceptable to me, and it should be to all of us in this house.
this is an asymmetrical integration in the distribution of the benefits and disadvantages of the single market, of common policies, of the single currency. both sides always fall in the same direction. the budget of the european union should be designed to combat divergence, to counteract the asymmetrical effects of integration and to promote real convergence. i say it should, but it does not, and it does not, because cohesion has never had the means to do so. however, instead of strengthening cohesion, they now want to deal it a serious blow, which means dealing a serious blow to countries like portugal, for whom cohesion is of greater significance. all this is to further benefit the net beneficiaries of integration: the great european powers who are now embarking on a dangerous security and militaristic drift that they want to finance from the european union budget at the expense of cohesion. now this is a path that must be rejected. the resolution we are discussing, unfortunately, does not do so with the firmness that was necessary; on the contrary, it legitimizes it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have always advocated a strict budgetary policy. for me, this has been true as a municipal councillor, it has been true as a member of parliament and it is now also true as a member of the european parliament. for my party, it was a clear promise to the voters not to let the eu budget swell more than necessary, which would mean a sharp increase in the swedish eu tax. the proposal now on the table risks a 40% increase in the swedish levy and goes much further than i can accept. europe faces major challenges, not least in terms of competitiveness. it would be wrong to burden our citizens and our businesses with even higher taxes to finance increased eu taxes. i think instead that the budget must be modernised and made more efficient. we should invest more in research, infrastructure and efficiency improvements that build growth. then the eu can really make a difference in people's lives.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when the social pillar was adopted, many of us felt a certain anxiety about the legislative proposals that would follow. in sweden, our social democrats were crystal clear that this would never lead to our taxpayers paying for subsidies to other countries. they felt that our concern was completely unfounded. however, in this election campaign, the social democrats, led by timmermans, have made it crystal clear that the eu should control social security and that we should establish a european unemployment insurance system. the ppe and the christian democrats have consistently opposed such a proposal. now we're sitting here, reading the bill, black and white. thankfully, there is no legislation in place yet, but the ambition of the socialist group is clear: our taxpayers should be able to pay for the lack of subsidy systems in other eu countries. the question is whether there will be any incentive left for countries to fully fund their own social security systems and implement the necessary reforms now that the eu is offering to foot the bill.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate on the mobility package has been controversial and ongoing for several years. it is still a very controversial issue in both parliament and the council. however, this parliament has decided, in two votes in the committee responsible for transport, to open a trialogue with the council. the negotiations should not be further delayed by a further impact assessment. the commission has also been very clear in the trilogue that it is prepared to answer precisely the questions put by the ecr and these members in the context of the trilogue negotiations. on that basis, i do not think we need a debate today. it serves no further purpose. the commission can deal with this in the context of the trialogue negotiations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by expressing my regret at the collapse of the thomas cook travel company. the bankruptcy left over 22,000 workers without a job to go to. in addition, it left 600,000 people stranded at or en route to their destinations. in this context, i would like to call on the member states in the european council to adopt a position on air passenger rights as a matter of urgency. parliament has been ready since 2014 and it is high time the council was ready too. now it was often thanks to the employees who stayed and worked without pay that the individual travellers came home. that's totally unacceptable. these are the same workers who now live in uncertainty about their future earnings and their earned pension rights. the rights of these workers must now be protected. the member states must engage in a close dialogue with the trade unions to guarantee the rights of these workers, and the european globalisation adjustment fund must be activated. i don't want the passengers and the workers to suffer from this bankruptcy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. action is now needed to strengthen the business climate in the eu, especially in the tourism and transport sectors. 12 million europeans work in the tourism sector, and among young people it accounts for one in five jobs. bankruptcies for the big companies, like thomas cook, send swell waves to the smaller companies like taxi companies, hotels and restaurants. small businesses are the most vulnerable, even if the problems start in large companies. the european parliament must now focus on improving europe's competitiveness. the business climate must be much better than it is today, especially among small businesses. we need to invest in the vital infrastructure that binds europe together. we need to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and we need to ensure that the internal market is fully integrated. it is up to us here in the european parliament but also and above all in the commission to work hard for the work that is now needed. the bankruptcy of thomas cook is just one symptom of a very deep-rooted problem for europe's competitiveness. i hope that more people will join me in putting entrepreneurship at the top of the political agenda. we can't just wait for better times. the work must begin now.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the bankruptcy of thomas cook is a blow to jobs on our continent. unfortunately, we risk seeing further blows to the tourism industry if we do not dare to combat the negative aspects of the climate debate. in a report prepared by ubs, they warned of the risks of so-called flight shame. they found that widespread flight disgrace could halve eu air traffic growth, with fewer jobs in the tourism sector and a significant negative impact on the european economy, while having only a marginal impact on the climate. over time, flying has become much more environmentally friendly. this is a trend which is also expected to continue thanks to the extensive technological development. if we are serious about ensuring good conditions for the tourism industry, we must also question ideas like air shame and instead take our responsibility for reduced emissions by paving the way for a new green technology in the aviation industry. it's how we take responsibility for the climate while protecting jobs and growth.
madam president, i would like to thank you. something is rotten in europe. right-wing extremism is on the rise in many countries of the union. the growing violence and terrorism of the white power movement is a consequence of the normalization of far-right parties and their views. even in this house we have parties and people with dark views, and as mrs michels said, verbal violence leads to physical violence. the terrorist attack on the synagogue in halle was a heinous attack on our entire democracy. violence and terrorism by right-wing extremism are not new phenomena in european history. we saw it in 1980 at the station in bologna. we saw it in utöya in 2011, and we saw it in new zealand in 2019. we also saw a europe in ruins when they gained political power in world war ii. in several member states today, including the uk, right-wing terrorism has been singled out by the security police as the greatest growing threat. europol also notes in its trend report that the number of arrests linked to far-right groups has increased for the third year in a row. although far-right groups look different in different member states, their targets are the same: religious and ethnic minorities, lgbtq people, women, refugees and perceived political opponents. the eu must take the lead in the fight against rising nationalism and racism. hate crime is defined differently in the member states, and there is a large gap between the number of convicted crimes and the number of reports. i also believe that we need to do more to combat hate crime and online incitement in cooperation with, among others, service providers. hate and violence are not forces of nature. we can stop this destructive spiral. we can build a better europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. anti-jewish hatred is in every room and everywhere, even here, even if the wolves come in sheep's clothing. the abominable attack in halle is a disgusting expression of anti-semitism and a disgrace to the eu that all the member states have decided the eu should be. at the same time, many of us are not surprised. the failure to stand up and protect people who are exercising their full right to believe what they want, to shape their lives as they want and to live a life in freedom has many times before the attack in halle had the most fatal consequences. we must put an end to the violent extremism. we must invest heavily in preventive measures that have an impact long before the terrible thing happens. we greens therefore call on the commission to continue to call on the member states to work on the prevention of radicalisation and to cooperate even more closely.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the polish parliament has given its support to the work on a new law. five years in prison for a teacher who teaches his students about sexuality. conservative forces pushing the bill say it's to stop pedophilia. but this is nothing but absurd. it's the pedophiles who should be in prison, not the teachers, not the doctors, not the midwives, not the ones who teach young people basic knowledge about the body. denying young people this knowledge only makes them less protected against unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases. knowledge of sexuality and coexistence gives every person - both girls and boys - power over their own body and their own sexuality, knowledge that is also fundamental for an equal society, a society in which everyone can openly show their sexuality. the law has not been passed yet, so there is still time to stop this deeply backward and misogynistic proposal. the fact that we even have to discuss this in a debate here tonight is a sad reminder of the state of affairs in parts of our union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. so the year is 2019 and the region is europe. first, it was the attack on abortion rights, and now, obviously, it's sex education that's being banned. poland is one of the few countries in the eu that does not have sex education in schools. now the government even threatens to make it illegal, with a prison sentence of up to five years. it clearly shows the stone age tendencies of the ruling law and justice party in poland. the reference to pedophilia is strange and sick. sex education helps young people to better understand their bodies, their emotions and their personal integrity. it can also prevent harassment, sexual violence and discrimination and challenge stereotypes and norms in society. it's a matter of freedom that i and only i have the right to decide about my body and no one else, and that's part of the goal of sex education. it also promotes equality and gender equality. let us not take a step back in the process. let us take a step forward by making sex education available to even more people. (the speaker refused to answer three questions (blue card) put by anna zalewska, zdzisław krasnodębski and patryk jaki)
madam president, i would like to thank you. last week the european council approved both the revised withdrawal agreement and the political declaration. the eu has now done everything it can to reach an agreement and avoid a crash, a no-deal brexit. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the eu's chief negotiator, michel barnier, for a very good job in maintaining unity and being responsive to parliament's wishes. the ball is now in the british court. i'm concerned about britain leaving the european union. although i have great respect for the will of the british people, i understand the british people today who are now fighting for a new referendum. the fact is that a heavy responsibility now rests with britain, with boris johnson. but i also expect the british parliament to find a way forward.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as regards brexit, it is now crucial that europe continues to keep a cool head. we will not let boris johnson's domestic agenda, a loud brexit party or, for that matter, a french macron who does not have enough patience, control this process. we must be prepared in europe to give further time to the extension or, if the british parliament decides to hold a new referendum, to be ready for it. for me, european cohesion is what should guide this process. the most dangerous thing for both britain and europe would be a no-deal exit. for me, the best thing would be for the british to remain in the european union. but if it ends in a withdrawal, we'll make sure we keep good relations. that's how we keep europe together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. how is it possible that after all this time we have achieved so little? eleven years have passed since the proposal was drafted. eleven years without progress, eleven years of continued blockades by some member states, eleven years without success. we can do better, we have to do better than this. we must do so for all those who every day face discrimination because of who they are, what they believe, because of their physical or mental capacity, because of their sexual orientation. we greens demand that we go from words to action. we therefore call for a list of concrete proposals to be presented after the luxembourg council on 24 october on how we can ensure that the principle of equal treatment applies in all eu countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is an important debate tonight. the groups currently facing discrimination on the grounds of age, disability, religion and belief and sexual orientation do not enjoy the same protection as other groups. it's very serious. it is 2019 and the fact that legislation has been blocked for 11 years sends the wrong signal to member states. it turns out that some types of discrimination are considered more acceptable than others. this is completely unacceptable. it is deeply unfair to the groups of people who really need this support and feel this benefit the most. persons who are exposed to discrimination on grounds of age, religion or sexual orientation have the right to protection. i want the eu to act and i want to see horizontal anti-discrimination protection now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. being non-discriminatory is about freedom, really. a given for most, but far from all. in fact, your sex, sexual orientation, or disability determines your chances in life. in society as in the marketplace. it is now more than ten years since the european commission put forward its proposal to prevent discrimination outside the labour market, but the directive is still not in place. this is unacceptable. the european parliament is still waiting for the member states. what are you waiting for? come on. it is time to take responsibility for the citizens and put the directive into place. the failure in 2019 to guarantee protection against discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or religion, which extends beyond the labour market, is simply not worthy of a union which is supposed to safeguard the freedoms and rights of all its citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. transparency and fair competition are the cornerstones of a well-functioning society, and are also necessary for the functioning of the internal market. public auditing both improves the playing field for businesses and strengthens public confidence in the system. tax fraud and aggressive tax planning, on the other hand, damage trust, distort competition and put the real operator at a disadvantage, which is particularly felt by smes. that is why it is so important that we work for sound transparency, because if we do not, we will damage both the foundations of prosperity and democracy in the long run. we must show the citizens of the eu that the eu can deal with these problems. it is therefore high time that we put these rules in place so that we ensure a level playing field for both large and small companies in the internal market.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the operation launched by turkey in syria illustrates the relationship between border control and foreign policy. because of the naivete of the left, the leaders of europe have been forced to entrust our border guarding to turkey. we cannot say what we want and we cannot do what we want because of the constant threat that turkey will open its border to migrants. erdoğan is allowed to hold europe hostage. the eu high representative should state that turkey has destabilised the region, caused civilian casualties, undermined security and stability, increased the risk of terrorism and damaged the coalition against the islamic state. she should add that we will never accept demographic changes in the area. but she won't, because we have no control over our own borders.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am ashamed of the international community and the eu's inaction so far in the fight for democracy and human rights and in the defence of international law in rojava. i had hoped that the joint resolution would also have included measures such as a no-fly zone in rojava and the eu taking the initiative to guard the border between turkey and syria with a peacekeeping force. the present proposal is good but not enough. we must also call what is happening by its proper name: an invasion with the aim of occupation, not an operation and not an intervention. i was in iraqi kurdistan this weekend. there i met mohammed, 12 years old, one of the many children from rojava who have been hit by what is suspected to be white phosphorus. muhammad's only crime is being born a kurd at a time when dictator erdoğan rules turkey and the world remains silent. a hundred years ago, ismail enver pasha committed one of the worst genocides in history against assyrians, syrians, greeks, armenians and other christians. a little less than 50 years ago, northern cyprus was invaded on the orders of bülent ecevit and two weeks ago, recep tayyip erdoğan decided to invade rojava. we can't keep quiet every time.
madam president, it should now be beyond any doubt to everyone that erdoğan’s turkey does not belong in this european union, and by invading syria and using his war on terror as a pretext to displace and slaughter civilians, erdoğan has made it perfectly clear that the international rule-based order is not to his liking – just like he is illustrating by occupying cyprus, drilling off its coastline and repeatedly violating greek airspace and territorial waters. and by persecuting and harassing political opponents and kurdish and christian citizens on a massive scale, erdoğan has also made it perfectly clear that he detests everything that this european union stands for. erdoğan detests our european way of life. he detests our democracy, our fundamental freedom, our human rights, our liberty and our rule of law. there cannot be a place for erdoğan’s turkey in the eu, and now is the time for this european union to terminate accession talks with turkey. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am voting against this general budget because it is too large and wasteful. the eu's core tasks, the four freedoms, could be accomplished with much less money. the reason i am speaking german is that i would like to take this opportunity to ask the following question to mr manfred weber, the chairman of the epp group: i am sure that you, mr weber, as a conservative, would like to keep taxes at a reasonable level. but then why did you design the €25 million interrail ticket giveaway for young europeans? why is your socialism radar so flawed that you've come up with this perfectly socialist idea? the taxpayers in europe would be well served if you could find the cure for this socialism.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. the situation is serious, but the un's international panel on climate change is also clear that it is still possible to reverse the trend and pass the paris agreement. but it requires that we act now. the eu has a key role to play here. as a social democrat, it is clear to me that europe should lead the way to a climate-smart society. we have consistently pushed for more ambitious transitions and emission reductions in the eu's climate and energy policy framework. these are renewable energy, energy efficiency, emissions trading and transport emissions. these are welcome steps along the way, but at the same time it is clear to everyone that emissions must be reduced even more and even faster than they are at present, and of course in line with the paris agreement. political leadership is needed. we social democrats are taking the lead, for we are clear that we must make the transition to a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable society and we are convinced that we can do this together and that we can do both: both reduce emissions and increase economic growth. that's how we create jobs, too. that's going to change in the job market. here too we have a responsibility to ensure that support is developed, that further training is provided and that skills are developed. a "branch deal" is a big deal. we see that, and we see that it is possible to achieve our goals. i myself come from sweden, a country where the social democratic government is at the forefront of climate change and is investing a lot of resources. i hope that now we can do it together, that we can promise greta and all the young people that we're going to take the lead in the climate change.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we really have a planetary emergency, both in terms of global warming and biodiversity loss. the biodiversity that is so important for the planet to be able to adapt to a warmer climate. it's a global crisis that we're facing, and yet we're not treating this crisis as a crisis. we've passed the 1.1 degree mark. to that, we must add about half a degree that particles, aeorosols in dirty air around the world, have masked away in part of global warming as a result of an enhanced greenhouse effect that we humans have already caused. we can still make the paris agreement. we can't give up. but it does require that we who are elected to the european parliament in these five years do all we can. this is exactly what all the young people protesting around the world are demanding of us. these five years may be the last five years we have to change the world sufficiently and quickly enough. let's do it together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the climate needs the eu. the threat to the environment does not stop at national borders. neither can the solutions. climate change needs action, and it needs to happen fast. with more green liberal solutions, we can turn this around before it's too late. it must be easier for individuals to make good environmental choices, but it must be expensive to waste and release. our emissions trading system must work much, much better than it does today. a common carbon tax would be the best way to achieve sustainability and growth. the eu will be the world's leading environmental organisation, a driver of innovation, with our free trade agreements becoming key policy instruments for global climate policy. we need to take the lead and show that it is possible to change from fossil fuel dependence. if we do not, how can we demand it of anyone else?
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is of course gratifying that the irregularities in the disbursement of eu funds have decreased, but this is not enough. in some budgetary areas there is no light at the end of the tunnel and unfortunately it is in those areas that i believe appropriations should have been reduced. the problem is that the budget for cohesion policy is not only swelling, but that the money is also being used for other things, wasted for other things than what it was intended for. in 2018, a full 5% - almost eur 3 billion - of the total cohesion policy budget was paid to non-eligible activities. the waste is blamed, among other things, on the complexity of eu legislation. yes, the eu bureaucracy is undoubtedly cumbersome, but i cannot understand, and i cannot accept, why the eu apparatus itself is unable to follow its own rules. the annual report shows that several eu institutions and bodies were in breach of both recruitment and procurement procedures. this is completely unacceptable. the processes need to be simplified and they need to be clarified. i am saddened when large amounts of eu money are used in the wrong way. money cannot continue to be sent to show-off projects in rich regions or to projects which are not even eligible. the citizens of the eu deserve better. they deserve to have their money put to the best use, and we're not doing that today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. every time a life is lost in the mediterranean because of the eu's unwillingness to act, i am filled with anger. the lack of humanity is a disgrace. the fact that this is allowed to go on year after year is unworthy of the european union. we greens demand that the member states systematically and proactively carry out search and rescue operations and contribute ships and equipment, individually or jointly in frontex. we call on all actors in the mediterranean to proactively disseminate information about vessels in distress to other vessels so that they can assist in search and rescue operations. and we demand that all people rescued in the mediterranean be transported to a place of safety in accordance with international and union law.
madam president, i would like to thank you. while the eu and its member states are locked in negotiations over the future of eu migration policy, people are drowning in the mediterranean. that's the simple truth. the response of the far right and parts of the right in europe has been to try to criminalize the humanitarian aid efforts of ngos to save lives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the responsibility for maritime rescue lies primarily with each member state, but it is not right that only a few take on all the responsibility. the agreement in malta to try to distribute the people who have arrived by boat is welcome, but the long-term sustainable solution is to ensure that everyone takes responsibility for a safe and orderly european migration policy, i.e. where all member states take responsibility for people who are on the run. the forces that refuse to take responsibility only talk about helping people on the ground. but all they mention is how we're stopping people from getting to europe. they don't talk about how we're looking to increase humanitarian development aid, for example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the european council's decision to stop the negotiations with albania and north macedonia was a serious mistake. today we see these countries working seriously towards joining the union, as evidenced by the 2018 prespa agreement between greece and north macedonia and the reforms made by albania in recent years to align with the requirements demanded by the union. the reopening of negotiations is an important step towards a new phase. the progress made in recent years must be taken seriously, not least so as not to disappoint the hopes of those young people and citizens who look to these negotiations with confidence, including many citizens from these countries who also live with their families in my country, italy. the union certainly needs to be reformed, and it is not working well today. we have to do it, we will do it, i hope in these years. we really need to change the way institutions work, but that cannot be an excuse to block everything. let us work to make the european union stronger by continuing to unite the peoples of our continent.
officer, minister, ladies and gentlemen, what happened at the eu summit last week only served to reduce the eu's credibility and credibility in terms of enlargement policy. the eu has lost its right to hold the western balkan candidate countries to account for anything, as it has not consistently delivered on its commitments. we know that candidate countries must make reform efforts, but we also have to recognise that the political system between countries is not a one-way street. it is good that all european leaders are finally aware that the eu is not a victim of the enlargement process but one of its stakeholders. sceptics talk about the need to implement internal institutional reform of the european union before further enlargement, but it would be unfair to expect the western balkan countries to wait patiently for the end of such a deep and divisive internal eu debate. mr hahn, thank you for your work, and it should be a priority task of the new european commission to ask this question.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president macron stood in this hall over a year ago and talked about how he wanted to see european democracy, that this is our best chance, and that if we give up democracy, we are on the wrong track. i agree with him. that is why it is extremely regrettable that he vetoed the accession process for albania and north macedonia. worst of all, the whole enlargement policy is now being called into question - enlargement, the eu's most successful tool for promoting democratic reforms and human rights and freedoms. we cannot turn our backs on those countries which are making efforts to become strong democracies, but we must encourage them to do more. if the eu is not in the western balkans, then russia is there, then china is there, and saudi arabia and turkey. let us not betray the dream of a united europe, of a united east and west. the european commission must act more now.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i will be speaking in swedish, but let me first greet the iraqi people in arabic. (the speaker says a few words of greeting in arabic) – 109 personer dog inom loppet av fyra dagar och över 3 500 är skadade, skjutna antingen i huvudet eller i bröstet. med andra ord, vem som än höll i vapnen sköt för att döda; döda oskyldiga, civila, som bar på den irakiska flaggan och krävde sina medborgerliga rättigheter. rätten att få slut på korruptionen, att få lika möjligheter till arbete, utbildning, ett liv i värdighet, en framtid. (ord på arabiska) skrek demonstranterna, ”vi vill ha ett hemland”. tyvärr räckte inte den utredning som tillsattes av statsministern. den berörde inte de grundläggande problem som finns i landet, som till exempel en icke fungerande vallag, de omtvistade paragraferna i konstitutionen, ett avslut på korruptionen. utredningen pekade inte på en enda minister som bar ansvaret för detta våld som mötte de demonstranter som var ute på gatorna, eller på dem som inte tillhörde den officiella säkerhetsapparaten i irak och som sköt, vandaliserade andra partiers högkvarter, som gick in i mediekanalers hus och slog sönder dem som skulle rapportera om det som hände. irak har betalat ett högt pris för sin frihet. först var det saddam. sedan kom den amerikanska invasionen. sedan kom al-qaida och sist nu var det isis. det är ett krig som bekämpades av det irakiska folket och alla dess minoriteter och dess armé, också å våra vägnar här i europa. irak måste göra upp om de fundamentala problem som jag pratade om tidigare. här kan och måste vi och eu leda och göra skillnad. jag är besviken på att vi i kväll inte har en resolution, men jag hoppas att vi står redo att bevaka demonstrationerna som äger rum om mindre än 48 timmar och agera politiskt. det irakiska folket förtjänar ett liv i värdighet. det irakiska folket förtjänar vår respekt och tacksamhet.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we social democrats welcome the political declaration of the united nations. we do it because we want to achieve the sustainability goal of universal health care for all. it's important to strengthen the health of people around the world. for us social democrats, access to health care is a basic human right. all people should be able to receive safe and quality care when they need it, regardless of where they live, whether they are male or female, young or old, and regardless of their social class: no one can be left out. sadly, today we see that people in various parts of the world do not have access to good health care. this also applies to the right to good and safe sexual and reproductive health care. in many parts of the world today, women are denied this right. this is completely unacceptable. the eu and especially its member states have a very great responsibility in their leadership to stand up for the right to abortion for all women. it is a fundamental right of every human being to be in control of his own body. we social democrats will continue to fight for the equal rights and dignity of all people and for the right to good and safe health care.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we must bear in mind that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is not unique to uganda. it is unfortunately a permanent setback that we have seen in various parts of the world, including also in countries of the european union. in making this resolution, we call attention to the need for a path that puts equality of all people in all relationships, whether they be within the european union area, but also with countries like uganda. in future agreements, the european union must take account of what is written in the cotonou agreement and ensure that there is no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, that this reference is included. we cannot watch, as we have seen in recent months, the death, the cruel murder of activists or a young transgender woman, as we saw in uganda. and that's why this resolution is important and that's why we have to go from words to deeds and make sure that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is not a reality that we can take for granted here or anywhere in the world.
author. – (start of speech off mike) mr president […] should not be a crime. yet this is the case in more than 70 countries around the world. we felt repulsed last week when members of the ugandan government expressed support for a proposal to introduce a punishment that should not exist for an act that is not criminal – capital punishment for homosexual activities. whether or not this proposal is adopted, homosexuality is already a crime in uganda and lgbt people are subject to cruel violence and discrimination. the government not only allows this to happen; they fuel it. it’s our duty to stand up for human rights and the eu should take a leading role in abolishing capital punishment everywhere. i want to entire lgbt community of uganda to know that the european parliament stands with them, because love can never be a crime. (applause)
author. – mr president, in light of the alarming rise in attacks against lgbti people in uganda, the resolution we have before us today is of great importance. three gay men and one transgender woman have been murdered in uganda this year, the latest being the lgbti activist, brian wasswa, who was attacked in his home on 4 october. the general deterioration of human rights of lgbti persons in uganda is very worrying, including increasing violations of their social rights, freedom of expression and gender equality rights. this resolution calls on our important cooperation with uganda. we have got to support all efforts aimed at removing punitive laws, policies, practices, stigma and discrimination that undermine human rights. we call on the eu to enhance the defence and promotion of human rights in uganda, notably through targeted support to ngos and full implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders. we also call for all of us to form the strongest opposition to all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation. old colonial laws have no place in the 21st century world.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have worked on this resolution. it's basically about standing up for lgbtq rights globally, which is human rights. the eu should be a driving force for the freedom and security of all people, regardless of sexual orientation. unfortunately, we know that the situation in many countries is far from this. the situation for lgbtq people in uganda is already very serious. the latest proposal which has now been discussed in the debate on the introduction of the death penalty for homosexual acts is of course totally unacceptable. i do welcome the fact that we have received statements from the government that no new legislative initiatives are under way. it's something we mean by committing. but it also does not change the situation we already see in uganda today, with hateful rhetoric and homophobia. we even see a situation where homosexuals are murdered. we believe that this must have a greater impact on the international community. the eu's development funding also comes with human rights requirements. we in europe must now be ready to engage in dialogue with the government, but also with civil society. because the most important thing to achieve now is that we improve the situation of lgbtq people on the ground. i therefore call on all members of the european parliament to vote in favour of this resolution. it is basically about standing up for human rights, but also for the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. five years ago, many of us breathed a sigh of relief when uganda withdrew its proposal to introduce the death penalty for homosexuals. now the same abominable policy has been put forward again. this time we have to act decisively. the eu's development assistance to uganda for 2014-2020 amounts to a total of eur 578 million. that's a lot of money. but this money is conditional. there are clear provisions in the agreement that human rights must be upheld. the european union must therefore take a clear stand against the homophobic developments in uganda. step by step, the crimes have become more serious. it has to stop. i'm going now.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the proposal put forward by the indonesian government is a proposal for a policy which violates fundamental freedoms and rights. the law restricts the opportunities for women, for lgbtq people and for religious minorities. it also limits the space for people who want to fight for the rights of others. for us greens, it is a matter of course that what is happening now affects indonesia's relationship with the eu. we therefore call on the commission to remind the indonesian government clearly what human rights are and that it is a fundamental duty of every government to defend civil rights and protect minorities from persecution and discrimination.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. indonesia's criminal law has its roots back in colonial times and needs reform. unfortunately, the proposed reform of the criminal justice system does not meet international standards. the recent trend towards islamism is unfortunately reflected in the proposal which has been tabled in their parliament. the proposed law can be de facto interpreted as recognising sharia. indonesia has hundreds of local sharia courts that discriminate against women and religious and sexual minorities and, of course, also restrict freedom of expression. the proposed law expands the existing blasphemy legislation, which discriminates against non-sunni muslim minorities. more than 150 people have so far been convicted of blasphemy, including a christian governor in jakarta. when a country embraces islamism, the eu must make it clear that the choice is between partnership with us in the free world or sharia.
mr president, my group, of course, agrees with the fact that we need to do more to end all violence against women. there’s no doubt about that. however, on this specific request from the id group, we suggest voting against and instead adding a resolution to the debate on eu accession to the istanbul convention as well as other measures to combat gender-based violence. the debate is scheduled for the next plenary session in november in strasbourg. let us make sure that we, as a parliament, use this resolution in november ii to take a clear stance against any form of violence against women.
mr. talman, what are you doing? some things are so obvious that they shouldn't need to be said. as self-evident as children's rights and freedoms may be, unfortunately the world does not operate in such a way that they are self-evident for everyone, at all times and in all contexts. but for the vast majority of people, it is self-evident that all children are worth the same, that all children have the right to play, develop and learn, and that all children have the right to be allowed to be children. these rules are also regulated in international law, in the un convention on the rights of the child the so-called children's convention. i am pleased to note that all the eu member states have ratified the convention on the rights of the child, and in sweden it is largely the christian democrats' achievement that it will now become swedish law in 2020. as meps, it is our duty to always defend and promote the freedoms and rights of children, both within and outside the eu's borders. at the same time, i am not willing to compromise the far-reaching rights and freedoms of swedish children or swedish legislation in this area with other countries. because it is not by compromising national legislation that we best secure the rights of all children.
madam president, i would like to thank you. erdoğan has become synonymous with violations of international law. turkey, with its self-styled 'pashtan' erdoğan, never ceases to amaze us in its struggle to ignore fundamental rights and international law. the illegal gas drilling in the cyprus economic zone is one such example. already in july, eu foreign ministers agreed on different types of sanctions against those profiting from illegal drilling, and on monday they went one step further. but far from enough for erdoğan to understand that enough is enough. the eu needs to be even more proactive. finally, these days we celebrated the fall of the berlin wall 30 years ago. now it is time to tear down another wall that divides one of our capitals nicosia. i believe that the only long-term way out of turkey's constant aggression against cyprus is to end the occupation. i therefore hope that all parties involved will welcome the new initiative for peace talks and reunification of cyprus taken by the un secretary-general, antónio guterres. i hope that we will soon see a cyprus free from occupation where all its peoples live together in peace and freedom.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. journalists who no longer dare to investigate us politicians and other power holders because the price is too high are a sad as well as a clear sign that our democracy is being shaken to its foundations. it is a shame that there are politicians in this house who threaten journalists and question their reporting. all democrats must act now. we therefore call for a common eu strategy to be drawn up with the aim of strengthening the protection of journalists and the freedom of the media. we want it to include the establishment of an independent hotline to which journalists who are subject to harassment and threats can turn for help. we want it to include an action plan to strengthen media freedom in the eu. and we want it to include a mandate for the commission to monitor the situation of journalists in all member states and to introduce country-by-country reporting with recommendations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i'll start with some facts. sweden today has one of the highest unemployment rates in europe. we have some of the longest lines in the hospital. we have the most poor pensioners, relatively speaking. we have been taking in the highest number of migrants per capita for many years. we also top the sad statistics of bombings, car fires and rapes. in addition, swedish taxpayers already pay the most per capita to the eu. i am here to defend swedish interests and as far as i can tell, belgium is a very rich and well-functioning country, and i therefore see no reason whatsoever for swedish taxpayers to be involved in financing the transfer of 400 notified carrefour employees. belgium can do it on its own. i therefore strongly oppose the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for this purpose.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in moria, on lesbos, 13,000 people live in a camp designed for 3,000. it doesn't take a genius to see the scale of the misery. half of these people are children, and a quarter of them are so ill that they injure themselves in various ways. why don't we listen to the experts and the volunteers, the ones who are actually on the ground in the camps doing everything they can to reduce the suffering? is our pride so great that we think we know better than doctors without borders, better than the european agency for fundamental rights and better than the european asylum support office? we must develop a long-term plan for eu asylum and migration policy and close these camps, these hotspots. commissioner avramopoulos, today you will receive a letter from me, in which i urge you to close camp morial and ensure that the children are taken to a safe place.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as a meteorologist, i've been following the climate for about 30 years now. i've probably been following the climate policy debate for almost as long. it is wonderful to see that there is finally an awakening in other political groups than the green. the problem is that climate policy is always lagging behind climate science. we're talking about 50-55 percent reduction in emissions by 2030, when there are scientists today who say that even a 100 percent reduction in emissions by 2020 would not guarantee that we'll reach the paris climate targets. it's amazing that we're starting to talk about a climate emergency. but then we have to fill it with content. of course we're going to get rid of fossil fuel subsidies and so on, we're going to think about transportation, food and so on. but above all, we have to meet much, much tougher emissions targets for 2025, 2030 and all the way forward, so that we in europe are ahead.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have only 10 years left to reach the un's global sustainability goals, and we definitely won't reach the goals if we don't take climate seriously. and with that, the paris agreement is central - everything is connected. the climate issue is the fate of our time. this is about our common future. the right-wing extremists in this room are talking in a way that we have a choice, as if the climate crisis doesn't exist. the fact is that the climate crisis is here, and that the transition, of course, has to be done with the glasses of equality on. the committee on international aid and development, on which i sit, therefore wants to push for a truly ambitious policy within the eu while taking responsibility globally. climate change threatens to reverse the progress made in global development, health, poverty reduction and conflict prevention. so my message to the eu member states is that we must take the lead, both domestically and globally. for example, we see that the old commitment to mobilise globally $100 billion a year in aid to developing countries will no longer be sufficient, because we are already lagging behind. it's time to move from words to action.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the climate challenge is serious, it is here and now, and it requires political determination, not panic. because if we politicians panic, who's going to be the one to keep the balance? we should instead contribute courage and hope to the debate. we must focus on the measures that are most effective and reduce emissions the most. therefore, the industry and transport sector need to be able to switch to clean energy. and so this is not the time to waste time judging some fossil-free energy laws on the basis of ideology. that is why we must also be able to count on nuclear power to meet our climate ambitions, to accelerate electrification and to phase out coal power.
in writing. – there is a growing awareness of global warming effects and its fast acceleration. achieving the objective of eu climate neutrality by 2050 requires many efforts from each one of us, disregarding different political visions, professions and age. a week before the cop 25 taking place in madrid, it is important to outline how we do this transition to a cleaner energy, lower emissions, etc. we are not only talking about lifestyle and what kind of straws or single use cutlery we use. we must outline what energy we produce, what type of economy we will promote, what manufacturing we have and will have. perhaps the most important topic is how quickly europe will make this transition and how europe will take care of the ones who will be worse off. we need to craft the right incentives for this transition. we would need investments in more programmes for transition adjustment and efforts by all sectors in the economy. we should prove to citizens that the measures we are taking are not a threat for their jobs. the road towards successfully fighting climate change is a question of mutual responsibility.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. whether we recognise it or not, the climate catastrophe is a global problem that affects everyone without exception and therefore requires a coordinated, collective response. fighting climate change is no longer an option, but a duty for all political leaders. as a european hungarian, i therefore believe that the first step should be to declare a european climate emergency, but we must not stop there. we have a duty to represent our concerned electorate and to get the council to agree on a climate emergency, not just at european level but also at the national level. the stakes are high, it's time to act.
in writing. scientists have long known that the climate is warming at an unsustainable rate. the ipcc report, published a year ago, finally raised the alarm of the world's consciousness. we're running out of time. we have to act now. the longer we delay a solution, the more rapid and drastic action is needed and the greater the cost of the disadvantages. climate change also affects economic activity. increasing extreme weather events, such as floods and droughts, have a direct impact on food production. the storm is getting worse, and it's damaging our infrastructure. there could be problems with traffic and power distribution. it is economically viable for the eu to be at the forefront of change, as climate change also affects the economy and the eu's competitiveness. it's an opportunity to export knowledge and technology. on the other hand, a world that's been crippled by climate change is bad for business, too. the sustainable development report released last week shows that the biggest challenge facing eu countries is to achieve the climate targets linked to sustainable development goal 13. in addition, eu countries have significant negative externalities on the ability of non-eu countries to achieve the targets. the eu is responsible for political leadership. we know the problem, and we have the technology and even the resources to solve it. this will mean much higher ambition in eu climate policy. we must at least redouble our efforts if we are to meet the challenge of climate change.
in writing. i support this resolution with the confidence that the outcome of cop25 in madrid will be a decisive step in the implementation of the global paris agreement on climate change. climate change is one of the most important challenges of our generation. to date, romania, in a dual capacity, eums and party to the paris agreement and the un convention, has been at the forefront of implementing and funding climate action, in particular projects in the republic of moldova, aiming to leave a healthier planet and more prosperous, modern and fair societies to future generations. given that forests are an important national priority, i support the adoption at cop 25 of decisions on the inclusion of reforestation of land with depleted forests as afforestation and reforestation mechanisms for the clean project development mechanism. in this context, i express the hope that consensus will also be reached on article 6 of the agreement - market and non-market mechanisms. i also support the adoption of decisions on increasing the share of the use of energy from renewable sources, the gap-gender dimension review, climate diplomacy, etc., decisions that were agreed at the 50th meeting of the subsidiary bodies of the unfccc, june 2019, under the romanian presidency of the eu.
in writing. the european union if someone has to be the climate leader. by setting ambitious targets and investing adequately in research and innovation, the eu has the potential to set an example for the rest of the world. we must work to ensure that industrial competitiveness, sustainable development and ambitious climate policy are mutually reinforcing. it is important that the commission includes in its green deal the long-standing parliamentary commitment to a 55% target for 2030 as the eu's emission reduction target. tightening current targets is essential if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. by being the first to achieve climate neutrality, the eu will secure a competitive advantage for eu industry. i object to the socialist proposal for nuclear power to be subordinated. the proposal is worrying and unrealistic and contradicts the eu's long-term climate strategy, the ipcc report and the iea report. these reports show that nuclear power is an essential means of energy production for achieving a carbon-free europe. the socialist proposal makes no sense. nuclear power is an efficient and stable way of generating energy. it currently produces half of the eu's zero-emission electricity. nuclear power is a key element in achieving climate goals.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention and further action to combat gender-based violence (2019/2855 ((rsp)). i would remind you that applications for spontaneous communications and blue cards can be made both through the conventional procedure and through the electronic system. an instruction is posted at the entrance to the chamber.
president of the council. i am very grateful to you, mr president. i just need a moment. i just got here. mr president, i would like to i would like to begin by thanking parliament for the invitation to take part in this debate, which addresses the very important issue of violence against women and domestic violence. this is particularly important today, the international day for the elimination of violence against women thats why we all have something orange with us. combating all forms of violence against women is a core element of respect for fundamental rights. in 2017, the fundamental rights agency underlined the need for eu institutions and member states to maintain their commitment to safeguarding the dignity of all women and girls in the european union. the fundamental rights report from 2019 encourages member states to continue their efforts to effectively uphold victims' rights and ensure rights awareness, access to appropriate support services, and effective remedies available to all victims of crime. the council has repeatedly expressed its commitment to preventing and eliminating all forms of violence against women, and it considers the istanbul convention a powerful tool in this fight. it is a ground-breaking legal instrument, and monitoring of the implementation of the convention has already shown that it is having a positive impact on the lives of women across europe. as you know, parliament, the commission and the council agree that the istanbul convention is a mixed convention which covers eu competences as well as member states' competences. as far as the member states are concerned, we can note with satisfaction that by now all 28 member states have signed the istanbul convention and that, to date, 21 member states have therefore ratified it. as regards the union, on 11 may 2017 the council decided that the european union could sign the convention. the union signed the convention on 13 june 2017. however, the proposed decision for the union to conclude the convention is still pending within the council, together with the draft code of conduct setting out the arrangements between the council, the commission and the member states for the implementation of the convention. the finnish presidency has continued to work on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention. the union has signed the convention, and the accession would enable better data collection and more accountability. we have also encouraged those member states that still have not ratified the istanbul convention to do so without delay. however, it must be borne in mind that, as you are fully aware, in april this year parliament decided to request an opinion from the court of justice on the appropriate legal basis and the council's procedure for accession to the istanbul convention. the council will, of course, submit written observations to parliament's request for the court's opinion in due time. on a more general note, the european union protects women and children from gender-based violence through legislation and practical measures to defend victims' rights. the 2012 directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, for example, places strong emphasis on access to appropriate support, including specialised support for women and children who have been victims of different forms of violence. the european union raises awareness of gender-based violence through cofunding campaigns run by national governments, and supports transnational projects run by non-governmental organisations that combat violence against women, children and young people. it facilitates the identification of common solutions among member states by organising exchanges of good practices, and conducts research on gender-based violence. i would like to conclude by reassuring you that the council attaches great importance to this issue. the presidency will continue to work towards the conclusion of the istanbul convention by the european union. we need to continue to seek solutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the occasion to discuss european union accession to the istanbul convention and other measures to combat gender-based violence. first, allow me to congratulate the newly appointed co-rapporteurs on the file, ms spurek and ms kokalari. violence against women is widespread globally. today’s international day against violence against women reminds us again and again about the millions of victims of this phenomenon. the european parliament and the commission have always been strong allies in combating violence against women. the istanbul convention is an example of this cooperation: although we have not yet achieved our common main goal, parliament’s strong stance has facilitated the role of the commission and helped in keeping the european union’s accession on the political agenda. i hope that this cooperation will continue in the future. the convention is the best available international legal tool for the protection of victims of gender-based and domestic violence through a joint european framework. the commission president-elect clearly stated that european union accession to the convention remains a priority for the commission in the new mandate. twenty-one european union member states have already ratified the convention. based on the discussions so far in the council working party, there should be enough support for a qualified majority of member states to conclude also european union accession. we should therefore remain committed to a swift ratification. commissioner—designate dalli has been mandated to finalise the ongoing accession process and, as she stated in her hearing in front of this house, she will do her utmost to achieve this goal. in some member states, national ratification was widely debated in public. the commission will continue working with civil society organisations and the council of europe to rectify the misunderstandings and misconceptions spread during these debates. however, if unblocking the negotiations at the council turns out to be an insurmountable task, the president-elect has confirmed that alternative ways to better support victims of gender-based violence and domestic violence will be explored. she also announced that the new commission could look into the possibility of proposing minimum standards regarding the definition of certain types of violence. the victims’ rights directive is the main european union law on victims’ rights. it provides for a set of rights for all victims of all crimes, including victims of gender-based violence. although the directive entered into application in member states in 2015, most member states still have not transposed it fully. correct implementation of the victims’ rights directive is a commission priority. we need to ensure that all victims can rely on their rights, independently of where in the european union the crime took place. legislation is not the only way forward: a comprehensive set of policy measures is needed to ensure that violence against women is tackled in a comprehensive and holistic manner. to provide the still—missing data on this phenomenon, eurostat already started to work on a survey on gender-based violence in 2016. the questionnaire and methodology will be finalised by 2019 for the action to start in 2020 and end in september 2022 at the latest.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. violence against women is one of the great problems of our society today. one in three women in the eu has experienced physical or sexual violence. this is unacceptable. the eu must have a strong united front against those who commit violence against women and provide strong protection for the victims. the istanbul convention must therefore be applied in all eu countries and we must take action against those countries which have ignored this problem for too long. the eu is, after all, a community of values where human rights and democratic principles must be respected in order to protect our citizens. let us show that violence and oppression in our society will never be tolerated and that we take seriously the fight for an equal society free of violence.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. free trade is the foundation of eu cooperation. it is through trade that we create and maintain peace and prosperity in europe, and it is how we forge the strongest bonds outside the european union. however, free trade requires rules rules that take account of the conditions of each party and that make trade fair. when rules-based trade works, it is a powerful tool that benefits everyone. when it becomes clear that the rules we have jointly established are not working, it is obvious that as a friend of free trade you must take responsibility and correct them. this is precisely the situation we have in the case of chicken in the context of the deep free trade agreement with ukraine, which has not worked. this kind of loophole that erodes the whole idea of rules-based trade, we have to deal with. ukraine is a very important strategic partner for the eu, and the eu is in turn ukraine's largest trading partner. both sides therefore benefit from the fact that trade between us is well organised. we therefore think it is completely uncontroversial to support this change, and we see that both sides benefit from it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the rule of law is the foundation of any modern democracy. it is also one of the eu's founding principles. however, the rule of law is not only fundamental to the eu acquis, but also, alongside democracy and human rights, one of the three pillars of the council of europe, and is explicitly mentioned in the preamble to the european convention, to which russia is a signatory. the russian action against the lithuanian judges, investigators and prosecutors who were active in the judicial process surrounding the tragic events of 13 january 1991 is contrary to the rule of law and the norms of international cooperation. it also raises serious questions about the independence of the russian judiciary. the russian government and its president putin are once again demonstrating that they do not shy away from using authoritarian means to achieve their aims, inside and outside russia, as in this case in lithuania. we must continue to press the russian government and authorities to respect the rule of law and to stop using the courts for political pressure.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in private business, shareholders would not have agreed to continually throw more money at something that doesn't pay off. in a competitive market, customers would not have agreed to pay more and more for inferior products and services. but now this is not a business or a competitive enterprise but a basically good idea that has developed into an expensive administrative colossus, a costly construction funded by working taxpayers and whose employees' constant spinal reflex is to grab more power and money. i've only been here five months, but i've already noticed that the wish list for spending increases is getting longer and longer, and now taxpayers are expected to shoot in another 10 billion next year. it just won't stop. with the stubbornness of a fool, i will demand that the eu manage swedish taxpayers' money and, instead of introducing tax increases, make sure to feed the hungry.
mr president, i would like to thank you. members of the european parliament! i would first like to thank günther oettinger and kimmo tiilikainen, who with patience and constructivity led us to the conclusion of the negotiations, and of course our own negotiating delegation, eider gardiazábal rubial, monika hohlmeier and johan van overtveldt. thank you so much for your efforts, which have made this possible! budget is much more than just numbers. behind numbers are activities, people, desires, longings, hopes. however, this requires resources. if we are to succeed in our challenges - two of them we cannot fail to meet, namely climate and peace - then we must create the resources to be able to climate-change our industry, our agriculture, our energy system and so on. we must also be able to keep europe together for peaceful development - a cohesive europe with fewer divisions, with high employment and good development. we have to deal with both of these things. one of the founding fathers of the european union, robert schuman, said: world peace cannot be maintained without creative efforts. if he were alive today, i'm sure he would add: the climate cannot be saved without creative efforts. that is why this budget is important. there are major investments in climate, research and development, the fight against youth unemployment - especially important now that we seem to be entering a recession - investments in education and vital infrastructure. these are the things that hold europe together. it is also what creates the conditions for successful climate change. a few words on the long-term budget: it cannot be delayed any longer. it causes anxiety and delays in important matters. we also have to provide for the needs. the budget must enable - not prevent - a successful long-term budget. we must seriously review the eu's own resources to be able to carry out these tasks efficiently and quickly. we have to deal with the climate and the peace. we must provide sufficient resources if we are to be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye in ten years' time, when the long-term budget has been passed, and say: we made the necessary decisions. europe needs more cooperation.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. when the first reports came from the un panel on climate change, which is now almost 30 years ago, what was happening right now was still just theories about what could happen in the future. so what is happening now is exactly what climate scientists have warned about. heat waves are getting longer and hotter, clouds are getting more intense. drought periods are also becoming longer and more intense, and thus the risk of forest fires is also increasing. the sea rises, just like we see in venice now. what is happening in venice now will happen again, more and more often in the future. so far, the world's oceans are rising only three millimeters a year. it sounds like a small amount, but it's going to accelerate and it's going to continue for centuries or even millennia to come. unfortunately, there are some things that we simply can't avoid anymore. this has gone too far. we must therefore work very intensively on climate adaptation, particularly in relation to our coasts and all the major cities and ports that lie along our coasts. thankfully, there is also much that we can still avoid. the worst of disasters can be avoided. we can still keep global warming below 2 degrees, but that means that all of us here, members of parliament and the commission, are working together in all policy areas to deliver on what we have promised to each other and to the rest of the world in the paris agreement, namely to keep global warming well below 2 degrees, with a target of 1.5 degrees. science has given us the basis for what is required. it is now up to us as politicians of all political groups to deliver what is needed, for ourselves and of course also for our children and grandchildren and future generations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is sad and upsetting that we have to devote time to this debate, and that it is so clearly a homophobic development in one of the eu's own member states, poland. hate against lgbtq people cannot be accepted and must never be normalized. therefore, the polish government must stop inciting hatred and threats against lgbtq people. i'm convinced that the majority of poles are not homophobic. i am equally convinced that the political forces that promote homophobia do so for their own gain. i demand that the commission, the present and the future, clearly distance itself from what the law and justice party is promoting for a homophobic policy. i also call on the commission, present and future, to stand up for the right of all people to live freely and to love who they want. the eu is not worthy of looking the other way when human rights are violated.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we should have come further. we shouldn't have to defend people's right to love whoever they want, but now i'm back here doing just that. but when our fellow men are subjected to increasingly systematic discrimination, eagerly encouraged by political powers, in this case by a party which absurdly calls itself law and justice, and by parts of the catholic church, we must put our foot down against lawlessness, against injustice. it does not matter whether this takes place inside or outside the eu. the eu is a home port for democracies that should stand up for human rights and liberal values. the world needs more love, not more hate. we need more tolerance, not intolerance. let us also learn from history. oppression always starts with minority groups and already vulnerable people, but it never stops there. all you women and men, mothers and fathers fighting for freedom, love and respect in poland, know that we are and we will be with you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many of us are tired of the protracted dispute between europe and the united states over how to manage our respective airline industries. we would like to see a greater willingness on the part of the united states to find solutions by consensus. but we must defend the wto system, not only when the wto rules in our favour but also when they find that we have been wrong. i hope, as do my colleagues, that the commission and our member states will do everything possible to alleviate the impact on the sectors now affected by the american countermeasures resulting from this judgment, but also to prevent the cause of the sanctions. but at the same time, let us remember that a functioning free trade requires common rules of the game. it is the foundation of european prosperity and growth. if we want to avoid a situation where all are at war with all, as president trump advocates, we must stand up for cooperation in the wto even when it does not directly benefit us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we in the eu are trade multilateralists. that’s in the eu’s dna. the crisis of the wto appellate body is a central part of a wider crisis of the rule of law paradigm in international trade relations. is it a dispute between the eu and the us? well, unquestionably, the trump administration has certainly caused the present impasse. but, at the origin of this escalation, i think, sits the fact that major players have been flouting wto rules – for instance, anti—subsidy rules – with impunity and mistakes have also been made in the practice of the appellate body. that’s why, without reforms, the wto is not going to be fit for purpose in the future. the walker proposals regarding the appellate body are good proposals, and they should be integrated with a wider reform of the wto. we need not just some multilateralism, we need effective trade multilateralism. unfortunately, we have seen the development of a huge deal of mutual mistrust across the atlantic in this regard. this is why i think we should send two very clear messages today from this debate: yes, we want to – and we have to – save the appellate body and its function, but we are also serious about reforming it. and on that basis, we call on all our partners to think again.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the concern of all the members is well founded. the fact that we are meeting today, as it were, to mourn the death of the world trade organisation's court of appeal is also the result of a faulty architecture of the wto, and some of the criticisms made by the united states are not new. for example, a more open approach by the eu and other wto members to the obama administration could have prevented today's problems and the threatened erosion of the multilateral trading system. the trump administration is now rejecting the whole basic principle of an appeals court. it is an attempt to establish the right of the stronger. the eu cannot and must not go along with this. i'm with you. the european union is a major player in the world economy. we have not succeeded in giving globalisation a legal framework which also safeguards the interests of workers and the protection of the environment. what does e-commerce mean for customers? what global institution guarantees compensation in the event of damage or fraud, and who mediates this? we need an international legal framework. the wto's regulatory framework, however, is no longer sufficient to capture the complexity of living, acting and working together. let us apply the competences that have been built up in the un system, for example, at unctad, the ilo and others. let us use the current crisis to develop a new legal solution that sustainably protects people and the environment from the negative effects of globalisation and that defines and enforces clear, enforceable rules and obligations for businesses and investors.
madam president, as clearly stated in this resolution, it is imperative that we do not let the appellate body deteriorate on 11 december. it is the ultimate guardian of the multilateral rules—based trade system. many are now working to find a solution, and i know that the commission is doing its utmost both to save the appellate body and to negotiate a parallel interim solution with like—minded countries. both of these measures are, of course, important. however, i’d like to underline the role and responsibility of parliamentarians, and therefore i reach out to american congressmen and women. while the president of your country might not want to discuss a solution, i hope that you do. so let us engage on our level as parliamentarians and do what we can to protect the interests of our citizens, because they will lose on tariffs and trade wars. we need to take our responsibilities to exert influence in every way we can, through parliamentary diplomacy and by putting pressure on the executive powers. with this resolution, we in the european parliament express our firm position, which is to defend the appellate body and the multilateral rules-based trade system. i hope that the members of congress will do the same.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is in the eu's best interest to do everything possible to resolve the ongoing conflict. the wto was created to be a guarantor of rules-based multilateral trade. but right now, the very foundations of this system are under threat. in line with president trump's 'america first' policy, the us has been blocking the appointment of wto dispute settlement body members for some time. if the members are not appointed within the next few weeks, there is a risk not only of paralysing the wto. in fact, it risks burying the whole idea of rules-based trade. so we also have to continue to stand up for the value of dealing with each other in a rules-based way. it is more important than ever that the eu does not respond with a single currency, but stands by its principles. we put trade first, fair and sustainable trade for our own sake, for the sake of welfare, for the sake of jobs and for the sake of the climate - indeed for the sake of the world. we want to be part of setting the rules for the sustainable economy and for the digital economy of the future. now let's do our very best to prioritize and constructively resolve this crisis before it's too late, because we're starting to run out of time.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today is an important day in parliament. we are about to approve a commission for the next five years, and it is a high-level objective that europe should be the first climate-neutral continent. the green deal is so crucial to our collective responsibility to leave a sustainable europe and a sustainable world - and a more peaceful world - to our children and grandchildren. because climate change is about leaving no one behind. it's a fair distribution that's required. the creation of more jobs with good conditions in the eu also needs to be accelerated, not least for european women, where one third do not have a job of their own. the social rights of citizens need to be strengthened in the member states, and work on the social pillar, which all member states support, must continue. we also need to find a solidarity-based and responsible migration policy together as soon as possible, and i know that ylva johansson is the woman who can do that. i also welcome the commission's initiative to present both an equality union and a gender equality strategy. i look forward to working together to stand up for our democratic core values, focus on improving for people and delivering on important issues.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in many ways, cyberattacks are a nightmare, an enemy that is not seen but is real and life-threatening. that may sound like a lot, but it's, as we all know, no exaggeration. the attacks are ongoing and they represent a clear and strong threat to the values and democratic principles on which we have built the european union. and that knowledge requires action. last year, the commission presented a plan on how to combat disinformation online. we have thus taken the first steps in the fight against cyberattacks. but that's not enough. the eu must do much more. europol's cybercrime unit where analysis and research are linked to strategies and action plans is good, but it is not enough. the eu must ensure that each member state takes the cyber threat seriously, because trust in the eu and in us elected politicians is determined by whether we take the threat to our democracies seriously. governments, parliaments, civil society and schools must be given the mandate and the resources to equip us all to take responsibility and act from our different platforms against the forces that threaten our democracy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. two democratic states israel and palestine living side by side in peace, security and safety is the goal, but this requires all sides to respect common commitments and international law. the current situation is completely contrary to that. it also does not help that other global actors such as the united states are contributing to polarization rather than a solution, including by moving the american embassy to jerusalem and, most recently, by declaring that they no longer consider israeli settlements illegal. an important part of a two-state solution is to also recognize palestine as a state. more states should have followed sweden's example in 2014. the occupation must end if the peoples of both countries are to live in peace and freedom. as vice-chair of the eu delegation for relations with palestine, i would like to see the eu do more. it's about the occupation, among other things. it's about settlements. it is a question of products from settlements, and it is also a question of humanitarian aid. unfortunately, buildings and other infrastructure contributed by the eu and its member states are constantly being destroyed by the israeli military. so my question is quite simple: what is the commission doing to ensure that this does not continue and what is the commission doing to ensure that we are compensated by the israeli authorities for all the destroyed and confiscated buildings?
mr president, i say to high representative mogherini: instead of bowing before the mullahs and stringing along the failed iran deal, which only enables the regime, european leaders should raise the spirits of the iranian people, throw off the hijab and state: we recognise that this is a regime that cares more about terrorists than its own people, that cannot tolerate dissent and free thought, that faces annual widespread protest, that orders soldiers to fire at will on their fellow citizens, that oppressed its people for decades. in our hearts, we europeans join the brave iranian people in their outcry: jumhuuriya islami namikhaaham namikhaaham. ‘we don’t want an islamic republic’.
mr president, let me just start by saying that in this house, and under this roof, we have now tried twice to get a resolution about iraq but have failed and i will ask the political parties here, the groups, why are you blocking a resolution on iraq? talking the talk is one thing, but walking the walk is another. addressing the high representative, ms mogherini, now we have a historical choice: either we stand with the iraqi people or we choose to stand with the government. we know all the governments – they come and go – but the iraqi people will always be there. what are the concrete measures, ms mogherini, that you are going to take to help the iraqi people to facilitate a dialogue so those protesters who are screaming on tahrir square, ‘norid waten’ – ‘we want our country’ – their voice is heard. i want to applaud the ambassador of the eu in iraq for his very obvious and strong positions, but we have to make those positions into concrete actions. the un has lost its credibility and now someone else has to step up and take this responsibility. the only ones that have this credibility is the eu, the only union of democracies in the world.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i have seen that the majority of interventions tonight on this topic confirm and encourage the approach that i described at the beginning of this debate. thank you for that. let me just answer specifically one question that was asked, even if i don’t see the member of parliament present in the room – but i am sure that she will be watching us carefully from her office. she was inviting the european union to finance some concrete projects in the middle east and she mentioned, in particular, the case of iraq. just as an example, to name the numbers, just for iraq specifically, we have been financing concrete projects and that means demining, that means job creation, that means reconciliation – projects that exist and that we visit constantly, at my level, at the level of our delegation on the ground. i’m sure some of you have visited as well some of these projects we finance in the middle east. just for iraq in the last years: eur 1.25 billion of concrete projects just for iraq. that is to say that this is not just diplomacy – even though diplomacy in this particular time of global politics is a valuable element, and sometimes i believe we underestimate the power of our diplomatic engagement. but it’s not just diplomacy. it’s also about supporting very concretely the projects that help people on a daily basis. many of you have said it’s real people, it’s real people with real needs. it’s children, women and men that have faced difficulties not just for years, but sometimes for decades, and that live under very difficult situations in security terms, in economic terms. the european union and the european institutions are also financing those concrete projects that are literally life—saving projects for millions of people. i would have expected that members of the european parliament would know this. so if i can invite you to document yourself, at least on the projects you agree on financing in these areas, i think this would be a service to the way in which you can represent your constituencies. having said that, let me say clearly that obviously i cannot state – and it would not be appropriate for me to indicate – what the position of the next commission and the next high representative will be on this. it is obviously for them to shape it, together with the council, but let me say that i hope and i believe that the european union, with your support, will have to be – even more so in the future – a fundamental partner for the people of the region, because sometimes we don’t realise how important the role we play is. whenever you visit you hear from your interlocutors, and not only the governments or institutions, but the people, civil society and simple citizens that are the key of democracy, that they count on us. sometimes i have the impression that they recognise our role much more than europeans do. so i think that the road ahead will have to be investing even more in economic and diplomatic but also security terms, in supporting this region in finding its way to a sustainable peace and sustainable security. and obviously, as many all of you have said, and as i’ve said in the beginning, with the firmest rejection of any form of violence and disproportionate reaction and handling of the protests from the authorities. this is clearly unacceptable. and this is exactly why, for instance in iraq, we are engaged in the security sector reform system, because we see the need for a reform – otherwise we wouldn’t be engaging in that respect. we see the need to change and improve the way in which the institutions can handle the security situations of the country, and many other situations. so again, i hope i that this parliament will give all its support to an even further engagement and work of the european union institutions in the middle east.
author. – madam president, the cotonou agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states is the most comprehensive partnership agreement which the eu has concluded to date. the cotonou agreement covers cooperation with nearly 80 countries worldwide and it covers a wide set of policy areas. in these times, times of increasing global uncertainty, we, the european union, must defend and promote multilateralism, global cooperation and a rule-based world order. these are all core values of our european union. the cotonou agreement expires in february next year. negotiations for the next agreement have already started. prior to that, parliament has outlined what we want to see in the new agreement. parliament’s consent will be required once the negotiations are concluded. so far, the acp and the eu have agreed that the foundation of the future partnership shall focus on key values and principles and on overarching priorities. attached to the foundation agreement, three regional partnership protocols will detail cooperation priorities tailored to the regions’ specificities. it is agreed that the foundation and the regional partnerships will be one legally binding instrument. the latter was not a given when the first discussions with eu member states started, but it was one of parliament’s key demands. but in today’s debate we need more clarity and we also need the new resolution, because some of parliament’s key concerns have not been addressed. on behalf of the committee on development, i have therefore tabled questions to the council and to the commission. we would like to hear clear answers to them today. we believe that these questions will provide guidance to the incoming commissioner. the first question is: where do we actually stand on the key demand of parliament that the new agreement should reinforce the parliamentary dimension at acp level? i would like to make clear that the european parliament cannot accept that the executive level of government might have no parliamentary counterpart: that there will be a joint council of ministers, a joint committee, but no parliamentary meetings. we agree with a reinforcement of parliamentary cooperation at the level of the three regional pillars, but this is not sufficient. we don’t want to lose the benefits of peer-to-peer discussions at acp level. another important issue, and also on behalf of the committee on development: where do the council and the commission and the acp stand when it comes to reinforcing provisions to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity and to ensure that sexual and reproductive health and rights are integrated and supported through the new agreement? these are key values of the european union, and we need to make sure that this will also be within the agreement. another important question is about civil society. we know that in some countries this is of very serious concern, and we want to see an increased role for civil society. this needs to be recognisable in the agreement and also at acp-eu levels. last, but not least, parliament clearly stated that the new agreement should provide for a peer-review mechanism for monitoring progress as well as gaps in implementing the sustainable development goals on a regular basis. we need more clarity on which way this will be integrated into the next agreement. before i end with a very clear message from the european parliament, i would like to thank commissioner mimica for all your hard work. you have worked very hard with the european parliament and we are really thankful for the cooperation so far, and also with the council. we now count on the commission and the council to be champions of our demands in the coming weeks and the coming months and to provide answers also today; hopefully clear answers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to raise and really emphasize four important messages to the commission and the member states. 1. ensure that the agreement is firmly anchored in the un global sustainable development goals and reinforce the issues of respect for human rights, democracy, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and good governance.2. it is important that future agreements include a greater role for civil society, and diversity must be a keyword for inclusion. this is extremely important in order to counteract the shrinking democratic space we see around the world.3. gender equality and women's empowerment must permeate the entire agreement. sexual and reproductive health and rights must be a priority.4. finally, we must not forget the question of destiny: environmental and climate issues. we all have to take a shared responsibility if we are to ensure a livable planet in the future. i hope that these messages are taken up and that you work towards a broad, equal and more modern partnership that addresses our common challenges and can help to fight poverty and inequality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in more and more countries, there are bans on involvement in organizations that defend democracy, the environment, and even human rights. those who fight for our environment and nature are threatened, harassed and even murdered. on average, that's three murders a week somewhere in the world. i have just heard the news of the murder of forest rangers here in europe who have been trying to protect the oldest primary forests from destruction and theft. the protection of nature should be a matter of course for all member states and businesses in europe. it must be self-evident to always protect the people who already do.
i am a co-author of the motion for a resolution. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. earlier this autumn, the proposal to debate the church fences was voted down by swedish mps from the environment party, the centre party and the liberals, among others. as a co-author, i am therefore very pleased that we can debate this important issue today. i note, however, that the concept of freedom of religion is deleted from the title of this resolution. it is not the first time that the drainage of water from this house from the centre/left when it comes to persecuted christians. it reminds me of the time when the socialist group demanded that the resolution on the mass murder of the islamic state not include genocide in its title. stop ignoring the persecution of christians. mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu will have donated well over one billion sek to algeria over the period 2018-2020. meanwhile, the algerian authorities have intensified their campaign against christians. fifteen churches have closed since 2018. christian communities and congregations cannot register and therefore do not receive building permits to build churches. the closure of churches and other violations are contrary to the un convention on human rights and the algerian constitution. we must put pressure on algeria to change its policy immediately. we can make a difference.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i've just returned from madrid, where the negotiations on our future are under way. i want the eu and europe to be the world's first climate-neutral continent. it takes courage, and it takes political leadership, not only at local and regional level but also at national level in the member states and here in the european parliament. we social democrats will take the lead. europe must be transformed, not only economically, ecologically and socially, but also fairly and equally. in my country, sweden, we have a government that has passed a climate law. finland and, more recently, denmark have also adopted a very ambitious climate law. it is time for the eu to do the same. we need to invest in green innovation and green jobs because that's what green growth is all about. the green deal is here to stay. it faces the future of our children and grandchildren.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we swedish moderates welcome the green deal. it is important that europe raises its climate ambitions, but what is most important is of course what we do. if we are serious about getting rid of dirty and fossil fuels in europe, we will need much more renewable energy. we will also need more carbon-free nuclear power. this will be an important part of many of our member states. i think it is important for the commission to understand that this is also a very central element in our success in achieving our very high climate targets. if europe is to set an example in the world, it is also important that we can reconcile our climate policy with growth and prosperity. because that is how we can build a policy that will have the support of the citizens of europe, and that is how we can set an example to the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. protecting journalists' ability to investigate us politicians and other power holders should be part of our dna. that is why it is a shame that the maltese government has not acted sufficiently after the murder of daphne caruana galizia. and it is a further shame that politicians and political groups here, who claim to be democrats, are accommodating themselves to their desire to hold those responsible to account. that you have lost your moral compass in the pursuit of self-interest is truly a shame. not only because malta is a member state, but also because every single politician, in every single assembly, who undermines the rule of law, at the same time undermines democracy and the trust between us politicians and the citizens, which is the very core of a democratic society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are principles that must never, ever and nowhere be compromised. at a time when we are seeing more and more countries flouting our common values, the response must be to put more pressure on member states to change course immediately and to respect them again. nothing else is acceptable. we need to get to a system where countries can't act without consequences. murder, violence and threats against journalists are a despicable way to silence dissent and prevent scrutiny. it doesn't belong in europe or anywhere else in the world. the investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia is therefore of the utmost importance and must therefore be allowed to continue in complete independence until its murderers and all other perpetrators are identified and punished. it is a matter of basic human rights. it is a question of the rule of law. the assistance provided by europol and the dutch police authorities has been important for the progress achieved so far and must be allowed to continue. to restore public confidence, decisive changes are needed in malta. the basic position of myself and my political group is crystal clear: fundamental rights and the rule of law are to apply throughout europe, in all member states. malta has in the past been criticised in this area by the venice commission of the council of europe, which is an advisory body composed of independent experts in constitutional and international law. in december 2018, an opinion was adopted identifying shortcomings and proposing changes. i expect the person who takes over as prime minister of the country to continue the implementation of the necessary reforms soon.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu has many ineffective aid programmes that are effectively exploited by unscrupulous entrepreneurs, criminals, oligarchs and even politicians. now many people in this parliament are putting their hopes in a supranational european public prosecutor, but that is not the solution. this type of proposal only alleviates the symptoms, rather than curing the disease. the basic problem is simply the oversized eu budget, which feeds corruption and waste. the proposal for the next long-term budget would increase sweden's eu contribution by sek 15 billion, while two thirds of the budget will continue to be spent on various support programmes. the redistribution accounts for almost 40% of all fraud cases reported and almost three quarters of the total monetary amount. and instead of shifting even more power to the eu, we can effectively fight corruption and irregular use of eu aid by reducing both the budget and the financial burden on swedish taxpayers.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for speaking and thank you to all the members who have raised this issue so that it is not forgotten. and thank you to the commissioner for being here and trying to answer our questions and concerns. this strategy is at the heart of human rights - human rights for all in the eu, human rights that are accessible. one of the key points in creating accessible societies is to review the implementation of the functional rights convention. it's time to review it, though perhaps a little late. let me remind you that 100 million europeans, eu citizens, are waiting for their human rights to be respected. today many europeans live without the possibility of genuine participation in society, including the labour market, culture, education and, not least, general elections, and not least the election of this parliament. it is unworthy of the world's only union of democracies that the election of its elected assembly is not available to all its citizens. our citizens who have a breakthrough functionality do not have the same opportunity to participate in the elections to the european parliament. that is why i intend to push for a resolution that makes the 2024 european elections accessible to everyone, and here i hope for the support of my colleagues in the european parliament. a future strategy must focus on access to the labour market, anti-discrimination legislation, training for young people, personal assistance and participation in democracy. i wonder how the commissioner intends to ensure that this is done. finally, it must of course be stressed that the organisations representing this group in society must be involved in both the development and implementation of such an agenda. because again, it's much better to include those it affects and to talk to, and not just about, these people, these 100 million europeans.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for your speech, commissioner. by 2020, over 100 million europeans are expected to have a disability, partly due to the ageing of the eu population. the current strategy has had a significant and positive impact. and alongside all the work being done nationally in our member states, we must continue the fight for an equal society. the different backgrounds or circumstances of people should not be allowed to determine the possibility of participation, and a number of challenges remain. because although people with disabilities have the right to work on the same terms as everyone else, access to the labour market is still limited. the employment rate is significantly lower for people with disabilities. we see the same thing in education. it is important for our children that you get an inclusive education of high quality. we also see that people with disabilities are at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is especially true of women. so we need to work more actively on these issues. we must replace the current strategy with a new and powerful strategy. for me, as a social democrat, it is about creating a society in which everyone has the opportunity to participate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as several speakers before me have pointed out, the world unfortunately failed to take account of many of the really important details in madrid. this is particularly true of the way in which the responsibility for the transition will be shared in the future. it is therefore all the more important now that the eu itself takes a clear lead and shows ambition and a clear leadership. this political leadership, it must be based on a holistic perspective and, in the case of climate change, a policy based on science. so it's not enough to reduce 50-55 percent by 2030. nor is climate neutrality by 2050 enough. but at least one important decision was made in madrid, which the media has not reported much about. the world agreed to a new five-year gender equality plan to make climate action and the paris agreement more equitable and fair. this is something we greens have been fighting for for a long time in the european parliament, because without equality we cannot cope with the challenges we face. in all likelihood, the 2020s, which we're inching into now, is the last decade we have if we're going to be able to keep global warming below 2 degrees. and next november, as we all know, it is time for the next big meeting in glasgow. until then, we must raise our ambitions and take global leadership, at a time when, unfortunately, no one else seems willing to do so.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are facing humanitarian disasters and we will definitely not be able to reach the un's sustainability goals if we don't take more action, and we will do it now. climate change calls for action at all levels, both in the public and private sectors. today, for example, 100 of the world's largest companies account for 71 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions. climate is not a question of maybe, as some would like to argue. climate change is already affecting us today, but it requires urgent action to keep it below 1.5 degrees. in particular, in talks with the smaller nations, like the maldives, at cop25 in madrid last week, it became even clearer to me how urgent the situation is. the maldives are protected and exist right now because of their coral reefs. however, coral reefs are disappearing because of the increase in water heat. developing countries are also the most affected by climate change, with the least resources to cope with a changing climate, and despite the fact that many of these countries emit significantly less carbon dioxide than other countries. it is clear that efforts to eradicate poverty, preserve the planet, create sustainable economic growth for all and promote social inclusion are closely linked. cop25 may have failed, but i am proud of us here in parliament, of the commission with timmermans at the helm and of the finnish presidency for pushing the eu member states to take the lead in a climate neutral europe by 2050. but now it is up to the eu and the member states to turn words into action.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased that the european council is now backing the objective of achieving a climate-neutral eu by 2050. the climate situation is serious. it requires action, and it requires action now. when the nations of the world failed to come to an agreement, many of us were disappointed. it is therefore particularly important that we now have as a common goal the achievement of a climate-neutral eu. this objective is also in line with the paris agreement. the transition to a climate-neutral europe actually means new opportunities, new business models, new markets, new technologies and new jobs and indeed also new green growth. the air conditioning is here to stay. it's got to be smart, and it's got to be fair. and i want us to work together to make the eu the world's first climate-neutral continent.
madam president, the fires in the amazon forest this summer and the sometimes disgraceful rhetoric from the brazilian leadership about the climate have understandably stirred a lot of concerns about the mercosur agreement. but let’s take a deep breath and look at the facts. the mercosur agreement already contains binding references to the paris agreement. in fact, this deal would make the paris agreement more effective, not less, because it would anchor our climate commitment in mutually beneficial trade. i agree with the science that very ambitious measures must be taken to save the climate. living up to the commitments in the paris agreement will be totally impossible if we don’t do it together. the free trade agreement between the eu and mercosur gives us a unique opportunity to cooperate, to put pressure on and create incentives for all partners to take responsibility. modern trade deals with binding chapters on sustainability are the most efficient forms of international cooperation, so let us use trade policy as a tool to save the climate instead of treating it like an enemy of the climate. this deal would make trade more sustainable in a better legal framework. this is an opportunity we can’t refuse.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we voted for the mercosur trade agreement, of course. but now the european green deal is on everyone's lips. investments are made, laws are made, and behaviour is changed. everyone is happy to spread the message that europe will be the world's first climate-neutral continent, the world leader, and then the rest of the world will follow. i wouldn't have a problem with that if it wasn't for the fact that you never talk about consequences, or facts. you stop at the benefits. the transition will cost an unimaginable amount of money, cause higher electricity prices, reduced welfare spending and reduced competitiveness. and to fund this giant project, one of the things that they want to do is to introduce a "carbon border tax", a trade barrier, even though we know that it will most likely lead to trade conflicts and in the long run lower global trade and reduced prosperity -- a prosperity that actually forms the very basis for dealing with a real climate change. barriers to trade don't solve anything. instead, focus on innovation, smart building, technology development and carbon dioxide, nuclear power.
madam president, i would like to thank you. yesterday, back home in sweden, the government made it clear - thanks in large part to the swedish environment party - that all policies in all policy areas must now be in line with climate goals. it should be a matter of course here in the eu too. and not least in terms of trade agreements, we have a fantastic opportunity to influence climate policy, and other policies, in other countries. it is very likely the best way, it may even be the only way, that we can really make a difference. perhaps the eu should not even trade with countries that do not sign and support the paris agreement and are fully committed to the transition. i'm glad to hear many other politicians from other groups talking about us being leaders in climate change. then we must be in all areas. otherwise, this is just words. there is a great risk that this mandate, these five years, will be the last mandate we have if we are to succeed in the transition.
madam president, we know there are millions of people targeted and persecuted due to their beliefs, and we know that parents are separated from their children and their families are destroyed. we also know that an authoritarian regime is detaining millions of people in so-called re-education camps. these camps bring back terrible memories of how similar camps were used in europe in our own very recent history. we have been too slow in reacting to the chinese regime’s horrible crimes against the uyghur people. now is the time to stop tiptoeing around china and its criminal communist regime. awarding ilham tohti this year’s sakharov prize shows that we will no longer accept china’s crimes against the uyghurs. tomorrow we will adopt a resolution calling for targeted economic sanctions against those responsible for the mass detentions of the uyghurs. yet our support for the uyghurs cannot end with sanctions, because giving up on defending human rights and liberties, wherever they are threatened, would be giving up on everything that the eu stands for. let us not walk down that road.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, secretary borrell, for choosing to address the grave situation in venezuela. it is still inhuman and there is a desperate mass exodus from a society marked by unrest, violence and hunger. i would like to stress what my former colleague said, that the fact that several million people of the country's population have left venezuela and sought refuge in neighbouring countries makes it clear that the serious problems have no end in sight. as the unrest spreads to more countries in the region, the situation for people fleeing has worsened. in october, unhcr, together with the eu, called on venezuela's neighbours to show solidarity with their neighbours in flight. we greens want that solidarity to extend to europe as well. we greens demand that the eu take the chance to concretise our solidarity, that we put all the good words into practice and stand up straight against corrupt rulers and oppressors, wherever in the world they show their brains.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as a social democrat, i am convinced that genuinely equal societies where people live in peace and freedom require access to democratic rights as well as social rights. unfortunately, we are now seeing a venezuela where the population is fleeing because of a lack of the former, the latter or a combination of the two. more than four and a half million venezuelans have fled the country and more are doing so every day. according to the united nations refugee agency, unhcr, it is now one of the world's worst refugee disasters. it is time for the people of venezuela to know their rights. we must ensure that we continue to demand free and democratic elections. we must demand basic rights. we must demand social security and access to basic rights for everyone in the country, and we must also ensure that we increase our humanitarian aid.
mr president, when addressing the venezuela crisis in july, i reminded this house that venezuelans are starving to death in their previously so-wealthy country, and that is still a fact. and it’s still a fact that venezuelans are being gunned down by president maduro’s forces. and it’s still a fact that those who manage to leave venezuela must make perilous journeys, they often lack the necessary documents and therefore they also lack access to basic rights. this makes them especially vulnerable to labour exploitation, sexual exploitation, to violence, and therefore they also lack access to basic rights. maduro has truly created one of the worst migration crises of our time and therefore i strongly support the extension of all eu measures targeting maduro, including the arms embargo, the travel ban and the freezing of assets. to those members in this house who continue supporting maduro and continue opposing our actions to help the people of venezuela, i am sure that there is a special place in hell for them as well.
mr president, high representative, let me tell you a tale of two teenagers. nikta esfandiari was only 14 when she was shot in the head by the iranian regime. her family had to look for three days before her body was handed to them. meanwhile, the teenage sons and daughters of those responsible for nikta’s death are living a life of luxury, shopping in european capitals, posing on instagram in front of ferraris and attending the most prestigious european and western universities. high representative, we need a european magnitsky act now: targeted sanctions against human rights abusers. let the family members of iranian henchmen know that the door to europe is closed. let the family members of the murdered iranian protesters know that europe is on their side.
madam president, i would like to thank you. female genital mutilation occurs primarily in parts of africa and the middle east, but it also occurs here. in germany alone, the number of female mutilations is estimated at 20,000, and in france at 60,000. and then we have sweden with the world's first self-proclaimed feminist government, almost 40,000, which puts sweden in an unpleasantly high position in terms of the number of women affected per capita in europe. all indications are that this elaborate torture with lifelong consequences is not only carried out when the girls visit their parents' homeland, but also on the spot in malmö, borlänge, borås, a stone's throw from social welfare offices, police stations and newspaper offices where people are more upset that girls might want to wear pink clothes. we cannot eliminate female genital mutilation ourselves around the world. but when it comes to girls in europe, we have greater responsibilities and opportunities. tougher penalties, information campaigns and more action by the authorities are a must, but they require political will and priorities. this is not acceptable anywhere in the world, but it is a shame that it is happening in our own home.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we in the eu often beat ourselves up as the world's defenders of human rights, which seems like a sick joke in view of the number of children, girls and young women from the eu who are being gendered every year. 180 000 per year are at risk of this abuse, according to the european institute for gender equality. the majority of these girls are not blonde and blue-eyed but look more like me, and many of them, like me, are convinced that this contributes to the fact that we, the eu and the member states individually, are not fighting the risk of genital mutilation of eu citizens with the necessary vigour. there is a destructive cultural relativism that contributes to the continuation of the abuse. if we really want to fight the oppression of girls and women, we can do it best by standing up for human rights and fighting racism and patriarchal, oppressive structures - no matter what color or shape they come in.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate and this resolution are about the absolute worst thing imaginable - it is bottomless. that is why i think it is important that we have this debate and this resolution and that we raise this to the highest possible level. sexual abuse, rape, sexual exploitation, slave trade and the murder of children, of young people. that is sick. the widespread and ongoing abuse of boys in logar province, afghanistan, is a disgrace, and i would like to express my full support and solidarity with the victims. we must put an end to the silence and stigma surrounding this phenomenon, and the abhorrent so-called play with boys must come to an end. those responsible must be held to account at all levels, the justice system must function, and the vulnerable victims, namely children, must receive the support and assistance they need and are entitled to. children must be allowed to be children and grow up in safety and freedom. no man is another man's property. the abuse must stop.
madam president, at the core of christian democracy is civil society, and to me, as a christian democrat, a free, diverse and strong civil society is a precondition for a democratic state. to others like vladimir putin, the mere existence of some sort of civil society is nothing but a threat to everlasting authoritarian rule. and putin ticks quite a few anti-civil society boxes. i mean systematic efforts to intimidate the media: check. rigging elections: check. and the ‘foreign agent’ law: check. in fact, this law is just another poorly-disguised attempt to thwart a political opposition that in putin’s view should not exist. but it does, and it must – not least in russia. and i do understand that it must be hard for former kgb agent putin to grasp that there isn’t a potential spy hiding around each new corner. but until he does, russia’s brave civil society members will have my unconditional christian democratic support.
on behalf of the ecr group. commissioner hogan, colleague marie-pierre vedren, two other colleagues, i am honoured to be part of such an epic and tense debate, such a fierce debate in this chamber. we show the attitude of european representatives to such issues. there are four of us in the room, from 751. it's true that the holidays are coming, but it's still quite revealing. so i congratulate you, mr. chairman, for being very strict with the time and following the rules. that said, it could be a heated debate between the four of us, we could argue. we're just people doing a game of belot cards, i don't know if you're familiar with it, but it's played by four people. we have plenty of time to make a theme like that. it's telling that the people in the gallery who are watching us are ten times more than us, and those people are the most affected by the debate, because the digital services tax will affect every single app they use, every single phone they use, and every single service they use. but you can see the attitude of the colleagues. that's very indicative, we're giving a lesson in politics, we're teaching them politics right now. but let's get to the point. on 10 july 2019, the office of the united states trade representative opened an investigation into the digital services tax proposed by the french government. this french law would impose a 3% tax on the total annual revenues generated by certain companies from the provision of certain digital services on the french market. according to the draft law, the tax would only apply to companies with total revenues from service coverage of at least eur 750 million worldwide and eur 25 million in france. the scope of these services is quite natural in an area where american companies are world leaders. the structure of the proposed new tax, as well as statements by certain french officials, indicate that it is disproportionately targeted at these us companies. it is clear to me that the balance between fair taxation and maintaining good relations with our closest allies is very delicate. reciprocal action by the americans is not in our interest. we all know and remember what happened when the us administration started a trade war with china. the problems there are not solved and will only get worse. i don't think the european union should be in a position like this, especially when it comes to trade with one of our closest allies. my group in the european parliament will continue to defend the right to free trade and free markets. this is how we can ensure prosperity for our citizens. that is why we must work to resolve this issue. france does not represent all of europe. i hope her example is not followed by other countries. i want to turn the attention of this powerful group of four people to something else. in this chamber we often hear calls for the standardisation of the tax burden in the various countries of the european union. they usually come from the left-wing communists in the european parliament. i want to point out that we are firmly against such harmful proposals. the tax policy of a country is its sovereign right.
mr. dzhambazki, i'll correct you on one point: there are not four, but five. you forgot me, and i'll always be there for you.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank the speakers for their engagement on this issue to assure the speakers as well that we will continue our efforts to engage with the united states in relation to all trade matters, including the issues before the house this evening on the digital tax and to assure you that in january i will be visiting the united states, and make every effort to work on a solution to this very important matter. and can i take the opportunity, mr president, to thank you and your team for your kindness and cooperation with the commission in 2019 and to wish you and all of your team for 2019 and indeed 2020 the compliments of the season.
ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the 2019 session. we all know the business on a thursday afternoon. the visitors don't know the business. the last meeting some have already left, had to leave. i would be very grateful if, in the new year, i could express the wish that the speakers who will be speaking on thursday afternoon would not only lament this. because remember, your speeches are recorded, your speeches are available, and if you ever do give a talk on this subject, you don't know if it was on a thursday or a tuesday afternoon, and then people out there think much worse. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i also wish you all a quiet time between years. a blessed christmas and a good start to the new year. i wish you all - as i say every year - much success, much success at any rate, as long as it does not harm my political home. i look forward to another decent gathering and hope to see you not in old but in new freshness. i thank not only the members, the commission, but also all the services on the left and right, behind me and behind the glass, our interpreters, who are our parliamentary air to breathe. because without these interpreters, most of us would not be understood, and i would be even less understood, because i have a heavy accent, for which i also apologize to the interpreters. i look forward to working with them next year, too. mr. dzhambazki, you said i was always very strict. that's right, i did. normally, you wouldn't get the word on the blue card now. but i'd like to give it to you.
you just proved me wrong, and i thank you for that. congratulations, you've always been strict about time and that's how it should be. with regard to your note on when the meetings are held, perhaps we should consider whether there should be meetings on thursdays so that the room is not so empty. it's a matter of organisation, which we as members of parliament have to do. now let me join in your congratulations and thanks to you, to the commissioner and his team, to your staff, to the translators, and wish them a merry christmas and a renewed effort to be here again next year.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
