the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on subjects of political importance (rule 163).
mr starbatty, we will consider this proposal. but there are other ways to move around in this building, such as by moving quickly from one office to another. that's another option.
i have to say, madam president, we are deeply shocked, saddened and also frightened by the tragic events in paris. we are afraid of not knowing what the consequences of these events of the past week will be for the rest of our lives. we have been painfully reminded once again that freedom and democracy are values to be defended. a free society is a value worth fighting for with all our might, always and against all threats from all directions, because liberal democracy is a very fragile plant that needs to be protected. the calls for the death penalty, for the reintroduction of data retention, or for further tightening of immigration policies, as we hear from the right-wing political corner, are not only wrong responses to terrorist attacks, as the past shows us, they are also a threat to the free society in which we live. what we need is more democracy, more freedom of expression and more rule of law. and we need the courage to defend it with the right means.
that concludes this item.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. you've become chairman of the council in a turbulent time. it was literally the wind that blew, and when the wind blows, i know that as a sailor, there are always two kinds of people: some retreat into their home walls, and others set sail and try to get somewhere. i have a feeling you've been trying to set sail. but this tanker, the european union, is still difficult to steer, even in good winds, and that is why things do not always go as we want, and it requires, above all, hard work. i have learned of this hard work from the italian presidency. i was the chief negotiator for the so-called gigalinos, those giant trucks that some people want to drive around europe. it is hard work that has brought about a sensible package, a sensible solution, which is now satisfactory to all. that is good, that is what distinguishes your presidency, and i do not understand the colleagues who do not take part in this work at all, who are always against everything, who sit up here on the right and then accuse you of not going further. ladies and gentlemen, this is just hypocrisy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european community for a long time. after four months of hard work, we have now succeeded in presenting to the plenary a compromise agreed with the council for the self-determination of the european member states in the field of gmo cultivation. after three years of blockade, we have finally overcome the obstacle in the council, and i can also thank the rapporteur, frédérique ries, very warmly for the constructive cooperation. the legal text is a major step towards greater subsidiarity and self-determination. in recent years, opposition to genetic engineering has also developed within governments. the vote on the approval of pioneer 1507 in february last year was already opposed by 19 member states. this fact cannot be ignored. the national governments concerned have already taken this into account. eight eu member states have banned the cultivation of the gmo plant poppy 810 on their territory using the only instrument currently available to them, the so-called safeguard clause, and have thus even risked legal action by producers because the safeguard clause only allows for temporary bans. we have now put an end to this intolerable situation by finding a legally sound solution. the two-step procedure, which allows the country to choose whether or not to include the applicant in the opt-out procedure, provides the greatest possible legal certainty while strengthening subsidiarity. it's certainly not the ultimate wisdom, but it's a step in the right direction. i would therefore ask the house to support this compromise.
the commission has already done so. the present compromise is certainly no reason for blind rejoicing. but if you look at the situation that has been for many, many years, the precarious legal framework under which countries like austria have prevented the cultivation of genetically modified organisms by means of safeguard clauses, this compromise is one that i am very much in favour of today. i have the impression that the greens and the gue/ngl are playing a very bad game today. it is not a question of whether we do not want to allow genetically modified organisms to be grown throughout the european union or whether we do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and this situation would have led to exactly what you are drawing on the wall here today, namely that it would have made it possible for the companies to sue and possibly even force the cultivation of those member states which have decided not to allow genetically modified organisms to be grown on their territory.
in writing. i have given a vote of confidence by voting in favour: it is now up to the commission to support the proposals for improvement mentioned in the report!
in writing. i have given my approval to the agreement. the favourable conditions resulting from the agreement for the whole region will provide new impetus for trade, fisheries and fish processing in the region.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this proposal. in general, such an agreement is to be welcomed. however, the commission is now encouraged to actively support the improvement proposals mentioned in the report. in particular, information on the general conservation status of the species caught must be reliable in order to continue such an agreement in the future.
in writing. as this agreement, which is unique at present, will boost the economic situation of these third countries, i have agreed to the recommendation.
in writing. i voted for the agreement. however, the commission is now encouraged to actively support the improvement proposals mentioned in the report. in particular, information on the general conservation status of the species caught must be reliable in order to continue such an agreement in the future.
in writing. although this is the first agreement to grant fishing rights in eu waters to a third country, i have given my approval. the favourable conditions which will result for the seychelles and mayotte will stimulate the economies of both countries and improve the infrastructural conditions, particularly on mayotte.
in writing. as the content of the recommendation by mr brok was very poor, i had to abstain.
in writing. i have of course supported this right to request a hearing, which is a result of the go.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was and is millions of citizens, organic farmers and consumers, also in this common europe, who made today's successes possible after years of blockade in the council and after the great resistance in the genetic engineering companies. and although it is a compromise, it is an important step towards a europe free of genetic engineering. with my consent today, i pay tribute to all those citizens, the environmental and other civil society organisations, the 62 gmo-free regions in europe. but i also pay tribute to all those in upper austria, where the struggle against the greens and rudi anschober began 11 years ago, by giving my consent today. the glass is half full, but there's still a lot missing. the fact that the genetic engineering companies should have a say in the decisions of the member states is unacceptable! and above all, we need a more democratic admission procedure, as president juncker has promised and as he has instructed commissioner andriukaitis to make a proposal by the beginning of may. it has to be!
in writing. the present proposal allows member states to prohibit the cultivation of gm crops for environmental, social and health reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. however, the following points should be borne in mind: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. gmo groups can appeal to arbitration courts, and there is also the possibility of a ruling by the ecj that such a ban would affect the free movement of goods and the mutual recognition of standards and authorisations. it is also unclear how long this proposal will be legally valid: the agreement between parliament and the council provides for a review for 2020, but it may be that (a) there is no extension or (b) the council considers that the parameters have changed and a general ban on gm crops is no longer necessary. there are also no consumer protection provisions on food contaminated with gmos, so that the ban on cultivation in one country can be circumvented by cultivation, processing and export from another country. i believe that the proposal is moving in the right direction, but it is far from sufficient: an eu-wide ban on gmos is needed. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the drafting is flawed. unfortunately, it is still possible to introduce gmos in food from other member states into one's own member state.
in writing. i abstained on this vote because, although the basic idea of the directive is to be welcomed, its drafting is flawed. the possibility of introducing genetically modified organisms into food from other eu countries remains. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. lawsuits could follow.
in writing. i abstained on this vote because, although the basic idea of the directive is to be welcomed, its drafting is flawed. the possibility of introducing genetically modified organisms into food from other eu countries remains. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. lawsuits could follow.
in writing. the promotion of sustainable management and associated protection of endangered species is welcome in itself. however, since the actual restructuring is only outlined but not described in detail and is administratively inefficient and therefore costly, i voted against the report.
in writing. i have rejected this proposal because we cannot put at a disadvantage those countries which already follow stricter guidelines than those indicated in the proposal. the gfcm recommendations shall continue to be taken into account, but the protection of the ecological system shall be the primary concern.
in writing. i have rejected this proposal because we cannot put at a disadvantage those countries which already follow stricter guidelines than those indicated in the proposal. the gfcm recommendations shall continue to be taken into account, but the protection of the ecological system shall be the primary concern.
mr president, maybe the only positive thing about the european council of 18 december was that it was a short one. the problem is that, in our eyes, the investment plan is neither a short one nor a very positive one. it is not what is needed to overcome poverty and unemployment on this continent. what is needed is an end to the rigorous austerity policy and investments in energy transition, the phasing out of nuclear power, the phasing out of fossil fuels and investing in energy efficiency and in renewables – that is where new jobs will be in the future, and not in infrastructures and models of the last century. what is needed is social and ecological change; it is needed all over europe, but also in greece. let me mention the change that angela merkel recently suggested when she said it would not be problem any more if greece were to leave the euro. this was an irresponsible electoral support for greece’s conservative party and it has also weakened the euro. i think that is not needed. what is needed is for the greek citizens to decide who they are going to vote for and not to have another member of the council saying irresponsible things. we do not need that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, this is a political farce of the special class. we have the highest unemployment rate on our continent in six decades. the euro has fallen to its lowest level since 2006, and the debt of some countries, such as greece, is already 180% of their gross domestic product. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. gentlemen, no one believes you and your politics anymore! no more than anyone believes you're running tax policy in europe. the european union is the biggest tax-avoidance organisation on the continent! while the european nomenclature is taxing itself by a few percentage points, the tax screw is being tightened for the citizens of europe. ladies and gentlemen of the governing parties, you are leading this continent into a dead end. this continent and the great peoples of europe deserve better than your failed policy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr hökmark: there is a debate in parliament that we should develop a version 02 of the small business act, because of course the small business act, with the new ideas of the juncker package, would have a great chance of being enforced in all 28 member states. do you think it is possible to revise this 'small business act' and adapt it to the juncker package in a new version?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the civilian population is the main victim of the widespread disintegration of state structures in libya. where the rule of law is lacking, people are subject to arbitrariness. the catalogue of human rights violations that result is unparalleled: kidnapping, deprivation of liberty, torture and physical abuse, deliberate destruction of livelihoods and executions. the violation of human rights has become the norm in the conduct of conflicts in libya, not only because there is no functioning state, but above all because those who violate all human standards do not have to fear punishment. it is therefore necessary that the international criminal court should be set up and that account suspensions and entry bans be imposed on all war criminals. a un security council resolution would allow such a move to be made now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in libya is a tragedy, thanks to the interference, the military intervention, also of the west. the country is in chaos and the integration of the numerous tribes and militias into the security system has not been achieved. the number of boat refugees is therefore continually increasing. 130,000 people arrived in europe in the first half of 2014, twice as many as the previous year, 118,000 of them in italy alone. a recent study shows that for many refugees, planning their trip to europe starts with facebook. behind it is a sophisticated system of information on how best to cross borders and how to move the asylum process after successful entry with good information and tips to avoid the authorities in the countries of entry. so we have to work together on a strategy to help libya and stop this illegal immigration to europe, but also to solve the root causes of these conflicts, because people are fleeing conflicts, and that's where we have to intervene.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have seen enough human drama in the mediterranean. i would like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased that he has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. for years and days, people have been seen here exposed in nutshells by unscrupulous criminals. for several months now, there's this new tactic on former cargo ships where the smugglers leave these people there alone. the profit margin for the smugglers is enormous. the departure points are believed by frontex to be in south-eastern turkey. so this is a new tactic, and the idea clearly came from turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the australian model should be applied in this case. instead of helping the traffickers and enabling their business model of bringing refugees to europe, the traffickers' business is being taken away and the boats are being returned to their place of origin.
i have to say, madam president, the immigration of people is as old as humanity itself, but within the legal limits, it is quite okay. but we are talking about illegal immigration, that is, illegal immigration, and that is hundreds of thousands a year to europe. the problem of overburdening our society, of overburdening our citizens with this immigration, is also there. to ignore the problem here is highly criminal and above all dangerous, ladies and gentlemen. the problem of illegal immigration across the mediterranean must be tackled where it happens. this means offering and creating reasonable prospects for people in their home countries. it will be equally important to hold the mediterranean countries responsible for the countries from which these ships depart and from which these immigrants board these ships illegally. finally, financial aid to these countries - as to turkey, libya and tunisia - must also depend on their efficiency and willingness to cooperate in combating this illegal immigration.
reports of refugees drowning in the mediterranean are now so commonplace that they hardly make the news. with the new method of smugglers, who leave overloaded refugee boats unmanned to their fate, the next disaster is only a matter of time. it's important to remember that traffickers are just a symptom of a much larger problem. we have to realize that we're not going to stop the trafficking with border patrol boats. we need safe entry corridors and the possibility of applying for asylum in the eu, even in third countries. it is the only way to prevent people from risking their lives on the dangerous mediterranean crossing and to remove the economic basis for the transport of goods. if refugees are also allowed to apply for asylum in third countries in europe, we must also discuss a fair distribution of the burden between the member states. one thing is certain, however: the current shock rigidity will take more lives. the eu must therefore adapt its migration system to the current situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, gender equality is one of the core objectives of the european union, and the right to work is an essential precondition if women are to enjoy effective equal rights. figures clearly show that discrimination against women is still a serious problem. the unemployment rate is higher for women than for men; the gender pay gap involves nearly every occupational sector; and moreover, while more education is an effective tool for increasing earnings, it is not an effective tool in fighting the gender pay gap. sadly, many people out there still argue that women themselves are the problem. needless to say, this is certainly complete nonsense. it is a shame – and for me unbelievable – that we all, including parents, still accept that the opportunities for young boys are still better than those offered to young girls. discrimination and unacceptable inequality has to be eliminated, irrespective of the means and the rules we have to apply.
in writing. by 2020, 40% of the supervisory boards of listed companies should be women, according to the draft eu commission proposal discussed today. the quota is to be implemented by means of a transparent selection procedure. a company that fails to comply with the transparency criteria may be subject to penalties. it may also be excluded from public procurement. in addition, member states must take measures to ensure that the 40% quota is implemented. in 2014, 24,7% of the supervisory boards of dax-listed companies were female. only 5.5% of the dax board members are women. a recent study in the united states shows that it is the bosses who are the main obstacles to women's career. a mandatory quota for women is not a suitable means of sustainably promoting women. it is not the qualifications that matter, after all, more than half of university graduates today are women. the following points should be implemented: (1) we need a clear commitment to promoting women in business and (2) diversity must be embedded in the corporate mission statement as a key management task. this is the only way to increase the proportion of women on supervisory boards and in management positions in companies in a sustainable way.
in writing. gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of the european union the reality is shameful: women are not equal in pay or promotion. excuses such as lower qualifications or lower performance have long been refuted by reality. women prove themselves every day by working harder to achieve the same as their male counterparts, despite the often still existing double burden. we in the european parliament have done our homework and in november adopted the report on the balance between women and men on supervisory boards by an overwhelming majority. it is now up to the member states. in december, germany adopted a mandatory quota of 30% on the supervisory boards of listed companies. this can be seen as a turning point for germany. i therefore hope that germany will abandon its blocking position in the council and finally pave the way for a more balanced representation of men and women in the executive bodies of companies.
i have to say, madam president, organized crime and corruption damage the viability and social cohesion of any country. it is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the member states to combat these phenomena. but the eu is also a common area of security, freedom and justice. the situation in individual countries therefore always affects the whole of society, especially since organized crime has a highly transnational dimension. europe must play a stronger role in the fight against organised crime. we must insist with all our vigour that the rule of law should be the basis of our life together. the fight against organised crime is limited wherever money laundering is involved. in the past, many member states have been too lax in their efforts to secure economic advantages in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. tax havens are an ideal breeding ground for mafia economic structures. we need to be much more rigorous about this. the directive on money laundering, which we hope to vote on soon, is an important step in this direction. the fight against organised crime must be rigorous, but we must always take account of the protection of fundamental rights. only by doing so can our societies be truly sustainable.
mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you are taking over the presidency of the council in difficult times. there are many, many problems that are piling up. the european union is facing a very serious problem of terrorism. some colleagues have said that we must now introduce as many monitoring instruments as possible and as quickly as possible. i think we have to be careful. it's not about how fast you introduce something, it's about what makes sense. it is a fine line: on the one hand, to guarantee security - as far as possible - but on the other hand, not to restrict what makes europe what it is: our basic civil liberties, our democracy. and speaking of democracy, i would like to mention a second point: you have spoken about ttip. i believe that special corporate courts are not a rule of law nowadays, that in such a case there is no equality before the law. we need to discuss that, too. of course we need free trade, of course we need the americans as partners, but only if we can preserve what europe is all about: our freedom!
mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. you have certainly hit the nail on the head with the objectives you have set out for us today for the latvian presidency of the council, namely a competitive, digital and foreign policy-oriented europe. these are priorities that are at the top of the european agenda. they certainly have big challenges to meet in the energy chapter - it has just been mentioned - with the energy union in the first half of the year. but i would recommend that you add another item to your agenda or to your priorities: namely, that you sell your country, latvia, as a best practice for a successful austerity policy. they have managed to emerge from the crisis as great victors in a few years. you have managed, with tough austerity measures, to have economic growth of 3.8% last year, while the eurozone was at 0.8%. this is a model for europe, this is a model. you should make this model a road show across europe, so that countries see the importance of implementing structural reforms to regain confidence and generate growth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i welcome your holistic, principled approach. secondly, i support your view that you are the foreign minister of a superpower for peace, dialogue, respect and diplomatic solutions. thirdly, i believe that success depends on the european union becoming a political union which can unite the countries of europe in a common foreign, security and defence union. fourthly, success also depends on whether we provide the eu missions with sufficient financial resources, whether we finally change the public procurement system for eu missions and whether the european procurement agency can coordinate all changes in national defence policies and ensure that they are adequately equipped. fifthly, i share your view that foreign, security and defence policy must start at home. none of us are neutral. each of us is partly responsible. but on the one hand, this means that anyone who violates european law and values at home weakens us in foreign policy, and anyone who opposes a common foreign, security and defence policy undermines your self-image as a superpower of peace. parliament and my delegation are on your side.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. without criticizing your management and your chairmanship, there are a few customs in this house. first, the time should be considered. it's nice to knock, but if you give the speakers 40 seconds more... the second is a nice custom: if time is short, only grant a 'blue card' and do not allow so-called 'blue card' questions. that's my point, with all due respect to your management.
i have to say, madam president, we have a very worrying situation in ukraine. it is nice that the union is calling for the implementation of the peace plan. however, it would have been wiser to have called for a trilogue and to have had talks with russia at the outset. as we know, there are two sides to every argument. russia has made many mistakes and has taken on a lot of blame, but europe too should not be drawn into the american cart and become a transatlantic agent. the damage is ultimately in europe: 3,000 dead, a million displaced, billions of dollars in costs for europe, and finally a divided and still corrupt ukraine. and russia: economically and financially a dangerous, fire-prone situation. i therefore propose that we return to normalcy quickly, activate the trilogue and lift the sanctions and communicate very calmly and sensibly with both sides.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are now entering the european year of development. this is actually planned for this year, because we should have met the millennium development goals by now. unfortunately, not all of them succeeded. but i hope that this year will help bring us closer to this year's goal: our world, our dignity, our future. because it's about achieving a life of dignity for everyone on this planet. this is also the basis for the definition of the post-mdg agenda of the european union. when i talk about decent life, i am also talking about gender justice. it is simply unacceptable that 21 years after the cairo conference on population and 20 years after the beijing conference on women, women's sexual and reproductive rights and health are still not universally recognized, that women are still not paid a decent wage for their work or receive a minimum wage, or that if they become pregnant, they are not given a job, or that they are exposed to violence. all of this contributes to the fact that women are still the most affected by poverty worldwide. but we also need more policy coherence. it is about development cooperation. it's not just helping. because what good is it if economic and trade pressure is created, then local markets are destroyed and then we come and help when it burns. that's no way to get closer to global justice. i would like to end with a short slogan from austria, somewhat transformed: we must not be surprised if global solidarity ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the millennium development goals, which were agreed in new york in 2000, will end in 2015. many of the challenges and objectives that were raised at that time were unfortunately not achieved. major milestones such as gender equality, access to free education and poverty reduction are still being achieved or have even been intensified in some parts of the world. of course, in many areas these goals were too ambitious and too lofty. our task now is to evaluate the results of the development goals and to continue the positive results within europe. europe can only take a leading role in the world if we manage to tackle the problems we face and find solutions to poverty, youth unemployment or equal opportunities. until we have mastered the great challenges on our continent, we cannot look for solutions on other continents or in other countries!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mrs mogherini very warmly and to compliment her on her persistence in taking the time to do so. the 2014 constitutional referendum in egypt brought an improvement in the legal situation of minorities, especially christians but unfortunately only on paper. coptic life is still very difficult. the legal and practical protection are clearly separated, and attacks on coptic churches and their members continue to be commonplace. the situation in the assiut region is particularly dramatic, where copts are constantly being kidnapped and, unfortunately, murdered without payment of a ransom. in other areas, the copts are still massively disadvantaged. recent studies show that christians continue to face discrimination in many areas, including the judiciary, education, social services, and welfare. so it's no surprise that egypt is sadly still in the top 25 countries in the world watch index in 2014. it is therefore the duty of the european union to take seriously the concerns of minorities, especially christian minorities, in the middle east and to demand from egypt the actual protection of christians, not just legal protection, and to make this a condition for further cooperation. because who else in europe should care about these minorities? i think that's our job here, to take over the protective function.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that developments in egypt are of fundamental importance to europe, and it is not indifferent to what happens in this populous and economically powerful mediterranean country. of course, stability and predictability is in the interest of all parties, and it is also appreciated that egypt is working towards this. but stability must be geared to sustainability. the policy of the current sisi government, which came to power in a military coup, is unfortunately primarily oriented towards short-term results. it is a more or less blunt continuation of the policy of repression which existed until the arab spring. civil society activities, whether they come from the secular sector or from the muslim brotherhood circles, are suppressed by authoritarian means. the legal basis is a law from december 2013 that euphemistically calls itself the right to public assembly, procession and peaceful demonstration. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. all measures taken on this basis contribute to the spread of discontent, and thus produce the opposite of what is intended: stability is increasingly undermined. it should also be recalled that egypt has explicitly committed itself in its constitution, adopted by referendum, to respect all international human rights conventions.
mr president, madam ombudsman, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr wałęsa, for his excellent report, which we in the epp group fully support. as a member of the committee on petitions of this european parliament, i would like to emphasise that we in europe can be proud to have an institution like the european ombudsman as the direct point of contact for all 500 million european citizens. complaints about the way public authorities and administrations work have been dealt with in a demonstrable and successful manner, and controls have been exercised and improvements and changes in the results have been introduced in the eu. in this context, i also welcome the investigations initiated by the ombudsman and her team on ethical behaviour and transparent lobbying. this annual report shows that these issues are at the top of the list of concerns of citizens. i believe that mrs o'reilly's efforts to make the ombudsman's facilities even more accessible should be supported. the support of the committee on petitions is assured.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? the conviction of the navalny brothers is another link in a long chain of thwarting and eliminating unwelcome political rivals in russia. as in the other cases, non-political reasons are constructed on the basis of which judgments are made that lead to these persons being unable to engage in political activity. this constitutes a systematic violation of fundamental political freedoms and, above all, hinders russia's development into a developed parliamentary democracy. the reactions of the population, who spontaneously demonstrated support for navalny under difficult conditions, show that people are looking for alternatives. but that's exactly what they wanted to prevent. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? we have already dealt with the situation in pakistan for the second time in the context of the urgent resolutions. it's always about religious extremism. the tragic events at the school in peshawar, when 140 innocent people died, have once again made us aware of the danger of the situation. terrorist groups, which are no less radical and insane than isis, threaten the future of the country. pakistan is a very important and important country, a nuclear power. the country must respond to this threat with all its resolve, with rigor and with intelligence. this includes the proper prosecution of terrorists - they deserve a severe punishment. treating criminals as terrorists lightly sets off a spiral of revenge. the reform of the pakistani judicial system, which respects human rights, should be the real consequence of the tragic events.
i have to say, madam president, the peshawar school attack was certainly one of the worst attacks ever perpetrated in pakistan 145 people were killed. but it wasn't the only attack on schools, and it wasn't the only attack on children. last year alone, there were 12 attacks on schools in pakistan out of a total of 372 attacks. i am reminded of the cowardly attack on nobel peace prize winner malala in october 2012, who was also awarded the european parliament's sakharov prize for her commitment to education. the pakistani government has reacted with full force to this attack, suspending the moratorium on the death penalty, a measure which is entirely rejected in the resolution before us. europe too is affected by terrorism. i remember the attack in paris last week. it is almost ironic that in peshawar, the two kouachi brothers who carried out the attack on charlie hebdo in france were honoured as heroes of islam by a muslim cleric at a special funeral ceremony. this is bad, and europe is responding differently, with a counter-terrorism strategy. europe must take decisive action against terrorism the whole world must take decisive action against terrorism.
author. - madam president, first of all let me say that kyrgyzstan is the country in central asia that has achieved most progress in its democratic development over the last years. it also decriminalised male homosexuality in 1998, and these are positive things that we respect in the resolution we have prepared. but we also know that the situation is still very difficult. the human rights watch report in january 2014 found widespread violence by police against lgbt people. there are, time and again, political and religious leaders who speak out against same-sex relations, against lesbians and gays. and now on 15 october, the kyrgyz parliament has passed, at first reading, a draft bill which contains amendments to the criminal code, the code of administrative responsibility, the law on peaceful assembly and the law on mass media, aimed at prohibiting the promotion of non-traditional sexual relations in an open or indirect way and providing for up to one year of imprisonment. that means they are prohibiting talking about facts of human life. this will have huge consequences: for journalists – if they write about the existence of lesbians and gays they might go to prison for one year; for human rights ngos; for the fight against hiv and aids; and of course, specifically for lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender people, who will face more discrimination and violence, as we have seen in other countries where similar bills have been passed. i would like to say here, from the european parliament, to kyrgyz mps: people fall in love with whoever they fall in love with. you do not decide on that. it can happen to your daughter, to your son. it happens in families, in parliaments, in ministries, in sports associations, so please do not put lesbians and gays into jail for living a life that has been happening all over this world in all cultures, in all regions. please respect your own constitution, and respect the recommendations of the council of europe’s partner for democracy status that you have, which clearly call for non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. let me also thank all those shadows and the parliamentarians of all seven groups in this house who have come together to formulate this resolution. i do hope that the parliament of kyrgyzstan will take this law off the agenda and let lesbians and gays live freely in kyrgyzstan too.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? the kyrgyz government is committed to the establishment of a parliamentary democratic system. it is also committed to respecting international human rights conventions. the european union has a regular human rights dialogue. the dialogue is quite positive because there is a number of progresses. the efforts to establish an independent judiciary are also clearly evident. all the more surprising is the attempt of the kyrgyz parliament to restrict the rights of people with a same-sex orientation and to criminalize propaganda for non-traditional sexual relations. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. human rights are not a wish list to be used as one pleases. they are universal and indivisible. the resolution is intended to encourage kyrgyzstan to reconsider its proposed legislation.
author. - mr president, i have to move an amendment to recital f, where it reads, ‘whereas the kyrgz republic decriminalised male homosexuality in 1998 and female homosexuality in 2004’. we have to delete ‘and female homosexuality in 2004’ because, i regret – and we had false information – that was never the case. so please support this oral amendment.
in writing. as the citizens of the eu member states have shown a positive response to the innovations and the ttip negotiations have now also had to bow to transparency, i would have voted in favour.
in writing. the situation for the libyan people is further exacerbated by the civil war, two rival parliaments in tripoli and tobruk, and the warring factions of nationalists, islamists, regionalists, various clans and tribes. all parties have committed human rights violations and in some cases even war crimes. the 400 000 displaced people and the political tripartition of the country are leading to an escalation which is swelling the flows of refugees, exacerbating suffering, strengthening terrorist organisations and undermining political and economic stability. the situation seems to be deadlocked, with neither side talking to the other, and terrorist groups like isis and al-qaeda have already begun to establish bases. the european parliament is taking the right step in condemning the escalation of violence and calling on all parties to accept a ceasefire. it is advisable to rely on dialogue and, where appropriate, to encourage it by means of targeted sanctions against those responsible. stabilisation of libya will help to push back terrorist organisations and alleviate the plight of refugees in the mediterranean. it is therefore also a question of european security, and that is why i support this resolution, after an end to violence, a criminal prosecution of human rights violations and a firm hand against terrorists.
in writing. since 2011, libya has been in a state of catastrophe. since the fall of gaddafi, there has been violence and chaos. the numbers of refugees leaving this country are staggering and increasing. in the first two quarters of 2014, 118,000 libyan refugees were stranded in europe. the number of refugees has doubled compared to 2013. since a strengthening of the libyan democratic process will ease this situation, i would have voted for this report.
in writing. the situation in libya has been a tragedy since autumn 2011. after the overthrow of muammar al-gaddafi, the country is in chaos. the number of boat refugees from libya is continuously increasing. in the first half of 2014 alone, some 130 000 people crossed the mediterranean sea to europe - twice as many as in 2013. of these, 118,000 arrived in italy alone from libya. europe's role is not only to support the work of the un special envoy for libya, but also to promote dialogue between the various parties and to strengthen the legitimacy of the elected libyan parliament. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. since the overthrow of muammar al-gaddafi, the number of libyan boat refugees has been steadily increasing. in the first half of 2014 alone, some 130 000 people crossed the mediterranean sea to europe - twice as many as in 2013. of these, 118,000 arrived in italy alone from libya. europe's role is not only to support the work of the un special envoy for libya, but also to promote dialogue between the various parties and to strengthen the legitimacy of the elected libyan parliament.
in writing. i would have rejected this proposal because it gives a false picture of reality. instead of a sober presentation of the problem, the motion reflects the anti-russian policy of the west and thus makes a constructive discussion of this issue impossible.
in writing. the situation in ukraine is deteriorating day by day. the country is still searching for its identity. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. billions have already been invested in ukraine and there is talk of renewed financial support. the commission has not yet decided what the money should be used for. i voted against this motion because of the many uncertainties.
in writing. the situation in ukraine is deteriorating day by day. the fighting is continuing to flare up, and the number of civilian casualties is unfortunately still high. several billions of euros, which should have been channelled to the benefit of the ukrainian people, have been diverted through unfathomable channels. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment.
in writing. i would have abstained, since i believe that the present joint motion for a resolution would not improve the status quo in egypt.
in writing. egypt is going through a difficult process. the eu's task should be to promote peace in order to achieve political and social peace. we must fight terrorism and protect human rights. the european union has a duty to support the christian minority and to continue to cooperate in the sense of protecting it. the situation of the copts is still very difficult. they're being kidnapped and murdered all the time. furthermore, christians continue to be discriminated against. i want real change and real improvements. i have voted against this motion because i cannot see any real improvement in the motion.
in writing. the christian minorities in egypt, who face daily discrimination and violence, need the support of the european union. the difficult situation of the copts, the continuing kidnappings and murders and the general discrimination against the christian community call for concrete proposals for improvement, which i regret that i cannot see in the motion. that's why i didn't agree to it.
in writing. while it is tragic that two fishermen died due to a misunderstanding when firing warning shots against a possible pirate attack, it is not at all acceptable that after three years the two sailors who fired those shots still do not know (1) what charges are being brought against them (2) in which country and (3) in which court. india's actions in this case not only run counter to customary international law but undermine legal certainty in international trade and the union's efforts to combat piracy. india must finally be prepared to find a solution in accordance with international maritime law, which respects international legal conventions. the rule of law and respect for human rights must also apply in india, especially since no charges have been brought against the two sailors to date and all requests for their return to italy have been rejected. the unnecessary delays and the restriction of the freedom of movement of seafarers amount to a serious breach of human rights. a solution must be found that is acceptable to all parties and that respects the law of the sea. the prosecution before an italian or international court is a prerequisite. i therefore support the joint motion for a resolution in the hope that a solution can be found soon.
in writing. i have already signed the request for an oral reply to this question, and i would have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. on 19 february 2012, italian marò marines shot dead two indian fishermen during an anti-piracy operation off the coast of india. this was a grave mistake. the incident is three years old and continues to weigh heavily on relations between italy and india. the marines were arrested in india and charged with murder. the country has the death penalty, but it is rarely carried out. the european parliament calls for the return of the marines to italy, as this is a detention without charge. i have also supported this motion because it is a serious violation of human rights.
in writing. on 19 february 2012, italian marò marines shot dead two indian fishermen during an anti-piracy operation off the coast of india. this was a grave mistake. the incident is three years old and continues to weigh heavily on relations between italy and india. the marines were arrested in india and charged with murder. the country has the death penalty, but it is rarely carried out. the european parliament calls for the return of the marines to italy, as this is a detention without charge. it is also a serious violation of human rights.
in writing. for the first time, the commission has called on the european parliament to draw up its work programme. the socialist group agrees that 2015 will be the year in which we implement the measures and investments we have announced. the commission's work programme for 2015 needs concrete and ambitious strategies, including for new growth, the development of the digital single market and a european energy union. however, the programme still has weaknesses. the social dimension is (still) lacking. the european union is a key player in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. transparency and proximity to the citizen are more important than ever in this respect. the revelations about tax fraud in luxembourg have brought to our attention another urgent problem: we need a fair tax policy. tax fraud distorts the single market and undermines solidarity. finally, we also need a holistic approach to an integrated asylum and migration policy in full respect of fundamental rights. in the light of the paris attacks, the programme must be extended to include a new security policy component. but we will be very careful about one thing: the values which make up the european union, namely civil liberties and democracy, must not be restricted in any way.
in writing. i would have voted against the motions for resolutions tabled by the epp, alde, s&d and efdd, since they are not, on the whole, a criticism of the current approach, but rather a call for continuation of the current policy. the commission has also been asked to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the new rules. the european parliament has also expressed its support for greater centralisation and for turkey's accession. i reject those points emphatically.
in writing. — i am really disappointed at the missed opportunity to send a strong message to the commission. the commission stated in the work programme for 2015 that the college was asked ‘to do different things and to do things differently’. i welcome the commission initiative on the investment plan that will unlock public and private investments in the real economy of at least eur 315 billion over the next three years (2015-2017). at the same time the commission sent us a clear message about the bilateral relationship with the parliament. we cannot accept the attempt of the commission to diminish parliament’s legislative opportunities to shape eu policies through a deregulation agenda. the eu has, now more than ever, big challenges ahead and cooperation and transparency should be the guidelines to follow.
in writing. the work programme contained many positive approaches, but was again characterised throughout by shortcomings in the area of verifiability of implementation. i believe that the key issues are the verifiability, traceability and transparency of action, also and especially in the field of the european institutions. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i support the commission's work programme for 2015. i welcome the proposals announced, which are intended to bring concrete benefits to citizens. examples of this are the planned improvement in the labour market situation, economic growth and planned investments.
in writing. as turkey is going backwards under its current prime minister, erdoğan, and at the same time several billion euros of pre-accession aid are being transferred to ankara, i would have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion because turkey already has a very high number of journalists in prison or awaiting trial and because the pressure on the media has increased very sharply in recent years. the eu has also been heavily criticised by turkey on the issue of press freedom. they cannot identify with european values, nor can they embrace the freedom of the media, which is a fundamental principle of democracy.
in writing. in democratic countries around the world, there are laws to protect journalists. in turkey, there are laws to punish journalists. this is how a turkish writer who was himself in custody describes press freedom in turkey. it has only been revealed today that the turkish newspaper cumhuriyet is being investigated by the prosecutor for reprinting the pages of the current edition of charlie hebdo. in recent years, turkey has become one of the world's largest jails for journalists. even if parliamentary speeches by opposition leaders are quoted in anti-government newspapers, prison sentences of up to 17 years are threatened! the "new turkey" as president erdoğan calls his era is also the end of freedom of the press and media in turkey! i therefore naturally voted in favour of the resolution of parliament which strongly criticises the systematic violations of freedom of the press.
in writing. freedom of the press is virtually non-existent in turkey. many journalists face trial in the country's prisons, and the pressure on those who report this abuse is growing. however, a cornerstone of a functioning democracy is a free media. but since turkey cannot accept this principle and also in view of the past events in that country, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. i can only agree with this motion for a resolution: the violation of freedom of the press and media and freedom of expression in turkey must be condemned in the strongest terms. freedom of the press and expression are among the cornerstones of any modern nation, and if turkey wants to be seen as such, it must not systematically interfere with the work of journalists, editors and media. the resolution is non-binding but it sends an important signal against the repression currently being carried out by the turkish state. it would therefore be appropriate to add to the written condemnation concrete measures which would make clear how little these repressions have to do with the european values which turkey as a candidate for accession claims to represent. such measures could include suspending accession negotiations, cancelling the pre-accession costs of around €1 billion per year and tracking and publishing all human rights violations committed by turkey under prime minister erdoğan.
the commission has already done so. in your speech you said that security is a guarantee for democratic societies - that is true, and terrorists attack that security. but terrorists also attack other basic elements of democratic societies, namely freedom, the rule of law. in all the measures that have to be taken, that are necessary, one has to keep in mind, over and over again, that this balance between security and preserving our freedom, preserving our rule of law, is an incredibly difficult one. if you now think we need more data - i am not sure that this is necessary - and if you think we need passenger data agreements, passenger data directives, then you must propose one, commissioner, and that is one which is in line with the decisions of the european court of justice, with fundamental rights. then we can discuss it. i'm still not sure if this is necessary. the last few events, it wasn't that there was not enough data, there were not enough police officers analyzing that data, and there were not enough police officers on the street. perhaps we should discuss this. fifteen or twenty years of austerity have really ruined our police too, and they are no longer able to respond to it. we need to discuss this. maybe they need more money and not more surveillance of those who are innocent anyway. we must be very careful, ladies and gentlemen. the socialist group is in favour of sensible action to prevent terrorism, but it is not in favour of blind actionism which does nothing and which restricts our freedom more and more and undermines our rule of law. i would like to say to the colleagues who are now calling for border controls that border controls would not have prevented these attacks, but they might have prevented this man from coming to paris, who saved these six people. it is also worth thinking about whether this would have made sense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has always been a party to the peace process, and it has always been a party to the peace process. i wonder how many more phones you want to monitor, how much more internet traffic you want to monitor, how much more biometric data you want to siphon off? they must also finally have the courage and the courage to say that the danger comes from a very clear direction, and that is islamism. we must also set the right political response patterns. it must be made clear that immigration from the islamic world should be prevented in the future, because immigration from the islamic world means that it is used as a carrier wave for political islamism. it is necessary to make clear in the area of asylum that asylum assistance should as far as possible be provided on the continent to those people who are seeking protection and help, as the german minister of the interior, mr de maizière, has also requested. and we must also make it clear to everyone who comes to us that our continent is one that is based on christian and western roots, and that anyone who has problems with this should go back to their continent of origin. ladies and gentlemen, i call for a zero-tolerance policy against all political extremism and religious fundamentalism, and i call for you to finally face this problem with courage and honesty and take the right action instead of just talking.
the most important thing in the fight against extremism and terrorism is to identify the causes and to act accordingly. we have seen terrorist attacks in europe on several occasions and in many countries, and we have managed to contain them. the italians will remember the fight of the red brigades against the political establishment in their country, the germans the red army faction, which also found many victims beyond the actual target persons, who were then business, banking and industrial leaders. in spain, eta has struck, in northern ireland there have been decades of conflict that have been sold to us as religious wars, but which in reality had social dimensions. and that's where we need to go again. the perpetrators are not primarily radical islamists, but people who have been excluded from society, who have not found recognition, social integration in the country where they grew up. the right education and satisfying jobs that follow it will help to defuse extremism. and then the european union must also make a stronger diplomatic commitment to contain the crisis hotbeds on the periphery of europe. all these measures form the basis for better integration. we must work towards this.
i have to say, madam president, the international labour organisation's study published today estimates that the investment plan will create 2.1 million jobs by 2018. but only if there are two conditions: massive investment in the labour market, especially in those regions where unemployment is currently very high, and accompanying measures in the field of training, in the field of education in general. the fact is that vice-president katainen made it clear in the committee on budgets that the aim of the investment plan is to attract private investors and to increase competitiveness. today, at least, he mentioned the basic principles of europe 2020, which include clear climate targets, employment targets, gender equality targets and poverty reduction targets. however, the fact remains that these criteria have not yet been formulated or made binding on the investment plan. so my question is: how do you ensure that these qualitative criteria are actually set out as guidelines by the steering board?
mr vice president! i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have too high unemployment in europe, too high public debt, outdated structures, too little investment, too little competitiveness, too little growth and too little employment. the plan presented today is only an initiative, an additional initiative. the plan today, and i am glad of it, is a new approach on the part of europe. but it is not a replacement for all the existing measures we have decided on, but an additional initiative for competitiveness, growth and employment. the fund is a proper initiative for a european investment campaign. the idea behind it is important. we need projects that are sustainable successes, otherwise we will not get private investors. ladies and gentlemen, this parliament feels a shared responsibility, and we shall make that clear in our reports and in our work in the various committees, particularly the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we need dialogue to do that. we do not accept that we are the governance control of the eib. we will be part of the design, and i say to them again: the member states must double the fund with money and guarantees to make it a common concern.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is the european commission's plan to mobilise €315 billion of investment in the european economy over the next three years. the fund is counting on private investors, who will multiply the eur 21 billion provided by the european union and the european investment bank, increased in a first step by a leverage of eur 3 billion to eur 63 billion, with a leverage of 5 billion, in a second step to the total volume announced by commission president juncker. some 2000 projects have already been proposed by the member states. the aim is to support projects that are particularly at risk. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the commission has also criticised the way in which the guarantee fund, the feeder fund for the efsi, is being funded. the eight billion euro for the guarantee fund is to be 75% from eu research funding, i.e. from horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question relates to bilateral trade agreements. what opportunities do we see here to address these issues and also to promote european interests?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you've heard it from many voices now: it's about intellectual property, it's about copyright, it's about an issue that many companies have a lot of money at stake. there are some really huge commercial interests. it is therefore, of course, worthwhile to examine this subject in more detail. it is a matter of the present and even more of the future. that is why it makes sense to set up an expert group now. the office as an agency has, of course, very valuable tasks. however, these tasks must be supplemented. and this group of experts is not a "l'art pour l'art" or an additional working group, but it must have a clear mission in its mandate. it is therefore particularly important that the european parliament has a monitoring function, that it can participate in the group of experts on an equal footing and that it can also exercise its checks and balances. that makes sense.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the internet is full of an interesting contradiction. there's hardly anything that's more heavily regulated. it's a computer system. computer programs, which have no nature, consist only of artificial rules and guidelines made by humans. at the same time, the internet is an unregulated success story. it was designed open and free, open standards, anyone could do whatever they wanted to do with it. it's the only way the internet could become the success story that it is today. this freedom of artificial unregulation is threatened because interests have changed, because governments and corporations very often agree that stronger regulation, different regulation of the network would bring them greater benefits. it is in the interest of the european parliament to support the internet governance forum and to advocate for a free network that continues to represent and advocate and strengthen open regulation internationally, at the international level. i would like to highlight two points in this resolution on which i am glad that we will now have a large majority in favour at this sitting. this is the net neutrality and the surveillance issue. a free internet requires net neutrality, and we agree. i hope that when we have other votes in the next few years, we will find some similar definitions of net neutrality. because everyone is for it, but whether everyone understands the same thing under it, i dare to doubt. in my view, net neutrality is something that cannot be scaled up, cannot be divided up, should not be viewed in a differentiated way, but all traffic should be treated equally. i hope we can agree on that. it's similar with surveillance: everyone is in favor of protecting privacy, protecting civil rights, but the definition is often different. i hope that in future we, especially as a parliament, will take a very strong position on this and defend the rights and freedoms of the population, and above all the innocent and unsuspecting, in the case of mass surveillance more strongly than the interests of the intelligence services. finally, i would like to make one final request: if we as a parliament take internet regulation, the governance forum, seriously, we should be working for the widest possible delegation of parliament to the forum. an extension would be desirable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. internet governance is one of the most important global challenges, a historic challenge. as in the early 20th century, at the dawn of motorization, we need a generally accepted set of rules. that is why we need the igf as a forum for discussion. two basic choices are particularly important to me, and they cannot be emphasized often enough. first, privacy in the digital world: all people have the right to move freely without government surveillance, and personal data is the private property of individuals. on the other hand, the question of how the internet is organised: the internet is a public medium, accessible to all, and the principle of net neutrality must therefore be clearly and unequivocally established. in both cases parliament has taken important decisions. we also expect the council to finally abandon its hesitant attitude.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that internet governance is the question of the future. that is why the libe committee has also asked stoa to analyse the nsa surveillance activities accordingly, to analyse what technological possibilities are available here. it has also been clearly established that not only can intelligence services use these surveillance capabilities, but that it can also be very fast that terrorist organizations can also get the keys that make secure lines unsafe. so i think it's very important for us to define the security of our devices first, because i want to be able to decide on my device what goes out and what goes in. we need a protective shield for our devices that ensures absolute privacy. it's really a good idea. we want to prevent third parties from using our device in the future to do whatever they want. it would be like someone outside the chamber being able to manipulate my hand at will. and this can't be the future. i believe that business and politics need secure lines on the internet. and above all, our citizens must be safe as in the case of letter secrecy. finally, it is also about ensuring that net neutrality is not abused by streaming services. the capacity that will be used here in the future cannot, i believe, be made available free of charge.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not the rapporteur, mrs sommer, has already qualified or not qualified herself by saying that everything which obviously contributes to product safety is nonsense and nonsense to her. mrs. sommer, do you know that everything is more expensive than food? food that may have cost 100% 10 or 15 years ago now costs only 50% of its historical value. i ask you, if you know this, how can you insist that obviously the horror scenario that everything has to get more expensive is a god-given law? can you not imagine that it is also in the interests of consumers that food should also have a certain quality? there's a price to pay for that. maybe it'll help the farmers too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is urgent that the country of origin of meat should also be indicated on processed food, because there are great differences in quality within the union, both in livestock farming and in meat processing. and the prospect of trade agreements such as ttip suggests that more processed food from third countries will be brought to the european market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of products is not compromised. i still think with horror of the meat scandal in 2013. the consumer needs to be regulated more strictly. this is the only way to restore consumer confidence in the products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not sold to third countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too am in favour of maximum transparency as regards the origin of our food. i think that the labelling of meat in particular would be a very big gain for consumers on the one hand, but also for agriculture on the other. i also believe that this horse meat scandal in particular - where it was not the horse that was the scandal but the incorrect labelling - could not be prevented by a law and a new directive regulation. if someone wants to cheat, he will likely continue to do so. but i still believe that by making the labelling of processed products compulsory, we are creating more transparency for consumers. it doesn't really have to be every salami on a pizza. i think it's also clear that this is going way too far. but a minimum of origin marking is absolutely necessary. i am in favour of a combined approach of compulsory and voluntary labelling. the introduction of mandatory minimum eu and non-eu origin labelling for sausage and meat products is likely to cost the industry almost nothing, but will still create clarity, especially in terms of purchasing raw materials. there have been a number of scandals in my region. i think that the possibility of voluntary labelling is very important. a country like austria has a very high level of awareness. i am also convinced that this would help small and mediumsized enterprises in particular and would also help them. because if we look at the manufacturing industry today, it gets the raw materials cheapest anywhere. we could put a stop to this.
the commission has already done so. i join all those speakers who have called on the commission today to table a draft law for mandatory origin labelling of meat in processed food, because i feel that i am here as a consumer representative and not, as some of the other speakers have suggested, as a lobbyist for the food companies. consumers have a right to transparency and to traceability, whether the meat is freshly processed or unprocessed. 90% of europeans also ask for this information. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but what i also resist is being put in the right corner, being put in the protectionist corner for my position, because i believe that consumers want to make mature, informed decisions. to make these decisions, they need the information. what they do with the information is they decide whether they are going to make up their own personal diet or whether they are going to make a decision, simply for environmental reasons, for animal welfare reasons, to prefer meat from certain regions, from certain member states. this must be the right of every european man and woman, of every consumer. this has nothing to do with protectionism. i think it is really stupid to want to tell consumers that they must not know anything. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we cannot always wait for scandal to happen. an austrian proverb says: "it is not always necessary to have something happen first before something happens". we have this label on beef because of the bse scandal. it worked there. i do not want to wait any longer for these scandals in the pigmeat, poultrymeat or other sectors, but i believe that the consumer's right to information in the meat sector, and in future also in the egg and milk sectors, is a good right. we have plenty of opportunities with meat.
in writing. the right to strike is a fundamental right. it is guaranteed in the european union by the charter of fundamental rights and must also be enshrined internationally without restriction. i call on the employers' side within the international labour organisation (ilo) to abandon their blockade. on the one hand, they doubt that the right to strike is guaranteed by ilo convention no. 87 on freedom of assembly. on the other hand, they prevent the ilo from calling on the international court of justice in the hague to clarify this question. i ask this all the more because in recent years we have seen an increase in cases where workers are denied the right to strike. this has been the case in greece in recent years. a strike by metalworkers was recently banned in turkey. this clearly shows that we urgently need clarification by the icj on this issue. we social democrats will not accept any restriction of workers' fundamental freedoms - neither in the eu, nor in our neighbouring countries, nor anywhere else in the world. it is therefore particularly important to me that the european union should use its influence in all areas to enforce compliance with this law and the ilo core labour standards. this is particularly true of free trade agreements such as ttip.
i have to say, madam president, safety on our roads is something that is very important to all of us. that is clear from every word, despite the political differences in this house. so let's put that out of the debate today. austria is particularly affected because, as a transit country, it is particularly affected by east-west traffic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i can tell you that in austria, out of 4 million radar errors, 2.5 million are caused by foreign drivers. the big problem we have here - and this has already been raised by some of my colleagues - will be the implementation and enforcement of this directive, as you all know. on the one hand we know that some member states have not yet transposed the previous directive - italy and greece have already been mentioned - and on the other hand the question is whether all member states are really willing and able to implement this directive efficiently. the problem of administration has already been raised in some member states. anyway, the rules have to apply to everyone. this means that all the member states must implement this directive, otherwise the result will be that the citizens of those states which have implemented the directive quickly and efficiently will also be those who have to pay the most fines.
in writing. the cross-border exchange of information on road safety provides for a mandatory exchange of information between all eu countries on road traffic offences such as drunk driving, alcohol and drug use or mobile phone use while driving. no one should think that road rules are less important when travelling in another eu country. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market. if other eu citizens are not prosecuted, the situation will worsen. i would also like to see improved possibilities for road users to appeal against a fine issued by another eu country. in future, a watchful eye must be kept to ensure that citizens are not overtaken by foreign legal systems and their rights are not curtailed.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are clearly at a crossroads. either russia takes the opportunity tomorrow, or the war will continue to expand. but if you watched angela merkel's press conference with barack obama yesterday, you will see that mrs merkel seems to have succeeded in persuading the american president that arms deliveries to ukraine would not really help to end this conflict. russia will not be impressed just because the ukrainian military's resistance may be growing. no, russia must be made to understand that it can only win with a peaceful solution. otherwise it will remain isolated. we must now support those who want to help diplomacy to break through. and we must also remind ukraine that it is doing its homework, fighting corruption, reforming the judiciary, reworking the constitution and giving more autonomy to the regions. our great hope is that diplomacy will win in minsk tomorrow. otherwise europe will lose and with it all of us! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we are committed to saying that, as members of parliament, we are here to say that genital mutilation is inhuman, that genital mutilation is a crime. and that is the conclusion, and we all share that conclusion, that the european union should not only discuss but act in this context. information campaigns were mentioned. but it is a very important concern for me not only to mention, but to actively demand that genital mutilation be a reason for asylum. i think that many people have said something similar, but take this as a sign that we, as members of the european parliament, are working for this and perhaps saying the same thing in more or less different ways.
in writing. given that 3 million girls and women are subjected to female genital mutilation every year approximately 8 000 per day the incidents of female genital mutilation are to be condemned in the strongest terms. female genital mutilation is a serious violation of women's human rights, causing serious health and psychological damage. in addition, fgm violates the right to health, safety and physical integrity, and violates the right to liberty and torture. circumcision can even lead to the death of the women involved, as it is usually carried out in extremely unhygienic conditions. worldwide, an estimated 150,000,000 women are currently suffering the effects of fgm. the main areas of distribution are mainly africa, asia and the middle east. in egypt, guinea and somalia, for example, about 98% of women are affected by fgm. in many countries where fgm is common, there are few convictions and trials, despite laws against it. very rarely are legal actions taken against violations of the law. however, fgm is no longer an 'african phenomenon'. there are about 5 million african immigrant women registered in the eu, many of them from countries where fgm is practised. it is estimated that about 8,000 girls and women in austria are at risk of female genital mutilation; about 2,000 have already been circumcised. fgm or consent to the procedure is a criminal offence in austria under the criminal law amendment act 2001.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mrs hautala and the previous rapporteur, mrs eva lichtenberger, for their work on the subject of child abduction. i want seven call signs behind it. it's for the child's sake. i say this because national vanities should not be the focus of attention here, but it happens all the time, and that is the message to the member states in this context. the commission has therefore rightly presented the decision on the accession of the eight countries as the exclusive competence of the european union. we now have the support of the reasoning of the european court of justice, namely that matters which clearly fall within the competence of the union within the eu are also the competence of the european union in external relations. i would also like to add my support to the request made by mr zwiefka: the brussels ii regulation is a new development. pick this up, please.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr farage, i've been listening to you with great interest. the suck was, you're the only one in here who knows what's going on and keeps telling us all what could be different. it is debatable whether this is so. but if you believe that, then i ask you, you've been in this house for over ten years now. if you know so much, how come you've never written a single report here, never filed a single motion anywhere? why don't you join in this work here? why don't you do something if you're so smart and you make a lot of money doing it, mr. farage?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european council is meeting again, and once again a policy of failure is manifesting itself at all levels. the first point is the fight against terrorism. instead of finally limiting the influx from islamic countries and focusing surveillance measures on the islamist sector here and at-risk communities, the basic civil rights of all europeans are being undermined and an orwellian-style surveillance state is being established. absolutely the wrong way! the second point is sanctions against russia. the cost to europe of this policy of sanctions is already more than 20 billion. and instead of continuing to act as proxies for the americans, the european union would be well advised to seek a path of reconciliation and a prosperous common future with the russians. point 3: the situation in greece, where a leftwing government has now been elected and all the principles of the european union are to be thrown overboard. i have respect for the greek people. but as the representative of austria, i remind you that the amount owed to us, at least 6 billion euros, must be paid back. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the wrong direction, but it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. terrorism has two main aims: the first goal is to spread fear, fear that leads to anger, anger that leads to violence, and violence that leads to unbearable suffering. the second objective, in my view, is not only to commit attacks on people but also, especially in our european union, in the member states, to commit attacks on the democratic system, the rule of law, personal freedom. if you want to fight terrorism now, it's a very narrow line to take a path that doesn't go in this direction, in the direction that terrorists want. we are not to restrict our own freedom, nor are we to ensure that the rule of law is undermined. it's a big, difficult challenge. if some colleagues now think that we must collect data without hindrance, i do not know whether that is the solution. perhaps we have collected enough data, perhaps we have too few officials to evaluate this data. maybe we're short of police officers on the streets because security has been compromised. perhaps too few people in europe have a viable prospect because they are unemployed, because they have no education. all this needs to be discussed. we are on the right track as the european parliament with this resolution which we are going to adopt today. but as i said, it's a very narrow line, a very difficult balance. subject 2: greece: mr reul, the socialist group is against austerity, yes! i am against taking people's perspectives, against driving so many people into unemployment, into despair. but we are also in favour of negotiating, talking and thinking about what we can do better together with a democratically elected government. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that's a very important question. i believe that we need to invest in all areas of security where it is worthwhile. the question of where it really makes the most sense, right now, is a question we need to discuss, we need to ask ourselves. i think that the way we are going to go about this resolution now, if the vote goes the way i think it might go, that that will be the right way. but you're right. you have to be incredibly careful with these things.
in writing. the proposal for a codification replaces regulation (eec) no 2843/72, which was adopted by the european council on 19 december 1972. the content is only encoded and not altered. the request is therefore to be approved.
in writing. the proposal on safeguard measures in the agreement with iceland was voted in favour, as it is a mere codification of the agreement.
in writing. in the end, i voted in favour of the agreement as it is essentially a purely formal measure which represents an improvement on the status quo.
in writing. - the proposal on safeguard measures in the agreement with iceland was voted in favour, since it is a mere codification of the agreement.
in writing. simplification and codification of individual areas of law after several amendments is an important measure to enable the eu population to better understand and thus to have easier access to exercise their rights at eu level. this act provides a comprehensive and clear summary of the complex and important legislation on the measures that the union could take with regard to the effects of common anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, which have been substantially amended on several occasions. it also puts an end to the dispersion of the documents. the content and substance of the current legal situation remain unchanged. in the interests of better access to eu law for the citizens of the union, i agree with the request made.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, as stronger anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures against dumped or illegally subsidised imports into the eu are necessary to keep the european single market competitive.
in writing. imports of goods from non-eu countries have always been a sensitive issue for the functioning of our internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, as it seeks to impose stricter anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures against dumped or illegally subsidised imports of goods into the eu.
in writing. since its entry into force, this regulation has been amended several times in its core substance, making it increasingly difficult (1) to understand its precise scope and (2) for data subjects to exercise their rights under this regulation without having to refer to the original instrument and any subsequent amended instruments. it is an unnecessary research effort to compare all the amendments to find consistency with the current legal situation, a fact which limits the efficiency of eu law. for the sake of clarity and transparency, these provisions shall be codified if they have been amended more than 10 times. in particular in international trade, where the legal situation is often not really clear, the rules in the region of origin should be clear and understandable for exporters in the interests of legal and planning certainty. such codification is now being done through this regulation so that there is no change in the substance of the intention of the regulation. it will consolidate the different acts into a compendium whose content will not be changed, thus facilitating access to eu law in wto dsb decisions on anti-dumping measures. the proposals do not change existing practice but simplify access and understanding, and i therefore agree with this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because the application of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures is intended to remedy market distortions caused by unfair trading practices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because i expect positive effects in the fight against unfair trading practices. i therefore believe that the measures in question are indeed useful in combating market distortions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because the application of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures is intended to remedy market distortions caused by unfair trading practices. on the other hand, the objective of the simultaneous application of safeguard measures is to provide protection against increased imports.
in writing. the present proposal provides for the adaptation of the existing regulation under a single regulation, rather than splitting the regulation as before between different acts. the case in point concerns council decision 260/2009, which has been amended several times and which, in order to improve legal and planning certainty, required codification. the act as such was not changed, only formal amendments were made. an effective and sustainable trade policy requires uniform standards, a need that was no longer present in the current version. i agree to the motion for that reason.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a common import regime, as it is of great importance that member states inform each other of any danger arising from the development of imports. import conditions, import trends and the various aspects of the economic and commercial situation and the measures which may be necessary will be examined in the context of a common import system.
in writing. the proposal was to coordinate import conditions, the development of imports and certain aspects of the economic and trade situation between member states. i have voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that such coordination is important in order to compete internationally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a common import regime, since it is of great importance that the member states should be informed of any danger arising from the development of imports. import conditions, import trends and the various aspects of the economic and commercial situation and the measures which may be necessary will be examined in the context of a common import system.
in writing. simplification and codification of individual areas of law is necessary to reduce red tape and complexity and to enable citizens to better understand and access their rights at eu level. this act summarises the complex and important legislation on the provisions of the common export regulations in a clear and comprehensible way. these provisions have been changed in substance many times in the past and have sometimes been difficult to understand. the present simplification also puts an end to the dispersion of the text across different acts, without altering the content or substance of the current legal situation. in the interests of better access to eu law for the citizens of the union and europe's export-oriented economy, i agree with the request made.
in writing. the proposal for a common export regime was voted in favour, since it is essential to examine the conditions of exports, their development and the various aspects of the economic and commercial situation and, where appropriate, the measures required in the context of a common export regime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider the coordination of export arrangements to be an important counterpart to the coordination of import arrangements. the common coordination of imports and exports will only strengthen the single european market to a global impact.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a common export regime, since it is essential to examine the conditions of exports, their development and the various aspects of the economic and commercial situation and, where appropriate, the measures required in the context of a common export regime.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the proposal to include gabon in the hague convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of gabon's accession, as this convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. child abductions are associated with considerable emotional distress for those involved. an important countermeasure is international protection standards and treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of gabon's accession, since this convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the proposal to include andorra in the hague convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for andorra to accede to the hague convention in order to find solutions to international child abduction cases together at international level.
in writing. child abductions are associated with considerable emotional distress for those involved. an important countermeasure is international protection standards and treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for andorra's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for andorra to accede to the hague convention in order to find solutions to international child abduction cases together at international level.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the request to include the seychelles in the hague convention.
in writing. the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention is therefore to be welcomed, since the hague convention no longer allows member states to act in their own interest and thus prevents the problem of national bias in the legal systems of individual states. cooperation between states parties can help to resolve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. child abductions are associated with considerable emotional distress for those involved. an important countermeasure is international protection standards and treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. - the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention is to be welcomed because the hague convention no longer allows member states to act in their own interest and thus prevents the problem of national bias in the legal systems of individual states. cooperation between states parties can help to resolve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the request to include the russian federation in the hague convention.
in writing. by voting in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention, i wish to encourage the establishment of a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. only through international treaties can cases of transnational child abduction be effectively tackled. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. - by agreeing to the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention, i wish to promote the establishment of a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the request to include albania in the hague convention.
in writing. my positive vote on albania's accession to the hague convention is intended to help resolve cases of international child abduction by establishing a system of cooperation between the contracting states at international level.
in writing. an important measure to combat international child abduction is the establishment of transnational protection standards and relevant treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for albania to accede to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in the case of albania, the european union has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the proposal to include singapore in the hague convention.
in writing. the accession of singapore to the hague convention is welcome as solutions to international child abduction cases need to be found through cooperation between the contracting states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected.
in writing. child abductions are associated with considerable emotional distress for those involved. an important countermeasure is international protection standards and treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for singapore to accede to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the hague convention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are protected.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the request to include morocco in the hague convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of morocco's accession, as the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as i regard the convention as an important measure against transnational child abduction and expressly advocate its ratification to the fullest extent possible.
in writing. - i have agreed to the accession of morocco because the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting states to solve cases of international child abduction.
in writing. the protection of children and the strengthening of their rights is one of the european union's specific priorities, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the prevention of child abduction is an important measure in the context of child protection. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a multilateral agreement providing the basis for the prompt return of abducted children or children detained abroad. the convention has now been signed by 86 countries, but its legal validity required official authorisation from the eu, even though some countries have already implemented it. that is why i support the request to include armenia in the hague convention.
in writing. by voting in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention, i want to encourage the establishment of a system of cooperation between the contracting states to find solutions to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. an important measure against international child abduction is international protection standards and treaty conventions. i therefore welcomed and voted in favour of the proposal for armenia to accede to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. - by voting in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention, i wish to encourage the establishment of a system of cooperation between the contracting states to find solutions to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. this report examines the functions, incomes and other activities of members of the european parliament which are considered compatible with the office of member of the european parliament under article 7 (1) and (2) of the treaty of 20 september 1976. the home countries were therefore obliged to send all the names of the elected candidates to the parliament for the purpose of verifying the legality of the election and the capacity for admission to office. if, in the light of the basic conditions laid down in the 1976 act, it is shown that the candidate's secondary activities and functions are incompatible with the exercise of his parliamentary mandate or if irregularities in the election process have occurred (such as the withdrawal of the eu right to vote of citizens who have exercised their freedom of establishment within the eu), the mandate may be declared invalid. in the interests of active protection of the right to vote of eu citizens and the credibility of parliament and its members, i fully support the proposals to safeguard the right to vote and the results presented here on the examination of the activities of members of parliament as regards compatibility with their mandate.
in writing. i voted in favour of the review of the mandates, as all the data provided by the member states were submitted in due time and no discrepancies were found during the review. the review body considered that all mandates complied with the legislation and could therefore be declared valid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the review of the mandates as all the formal requirements were met and the mandates were also in line with the requirements set out in the review body.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vote on the review of the mandates, as all the data provided by the member states were submitted in due time and no discrepancies were found during the review. all the mandates comply with the legislation and can therefore be declared valid.
in writing. i have refused to give my consent to this proposal, since the previous directive has not been transposed in all member states. the danger is obvious that some nations will follow this directive and that the drivers of those nations of other member states who refuse to implement it will be scrapped. until a solution is found which obliges all member states to enforce the same consequences for motorists, i cannot unfortunately agree to this proposal.
in writing. after careful consideration, i have voted against the proposal. it was obvious to me that the proposal was going in the right direction. however, the proposal stands or falls with the implementation by the member states, and i simply see the danger that motorists will be targeted in some member states, while other member states do not implement the pursuit of conspicuous road users or only half-heartedly. the experience gained under the previous scheme also supported this assessment.
in writing. - i have refused to give my consent to this proposal, since the previous directive has not been implemented in all the member states. the danger that some nations will follow this directive and the drivers of those nations will be scrapped by other member states who refuse to implement it is evident. until a solution is found which obliges all member states to enforce the same consequences for motorists, i cannot unfortunately agree to this proposal.
in writing. the renewal of the agreement between senegal and the european union on sustainable fisheries is welcome from the point of view of the conservation of biodiversity and nature conservation in africa, as it aims above all to allow european vessels access to senegalese waters, while at the same time being subject to the interests of sustainable marine protection, coordinated fishing quotas and scientific recommendations from cecaf and iccat. sustainable fisheries are of great interest to the european food supply and also represent an important step in senegal's economic development, which is currently focused primarily on the agricultural sector. payments for fishing concessions are highly oriented towards world market prices and benefit mainly national fishermen. i agree with the renewal of the fisheries agreement with senegal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, as the growth opportunities for the senegalese economy are worth supporting. these results from better use of available stocks in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries. both parties will benefit from the continuation of this agreement. it is to be hoped that the funds made available to the senegalese government will be used in the areas for which they are intended.
in writing. i support the fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal. sustainable fisheries are an important step forward both for the supply of the european union and for senegal's economic development, which is still heavily based on the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this agreement, since it is intended to promote the growth opportunities for the senegalese economy arising from a better use of available stocks in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing. both parties will benefit from the continuation of this agreement. it is to be hoped that the funds made available to the senegalese government will be used in the areas for which they are intended.
mr president, as article 2 of the treaty of the european union clearly states, the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom and democracy. we have to define and implement a solid and consistent counter-terrorism strategy, but the respect of human rights cannot be negotiated. the report by the us senate suggests that the cia’s methods may have constituted torture. we should establish compensation for damages and identify those responsible for these actions. the cia perpetrated torture on suspected terrorists also on eu soil. information about the specific eu countries where this occurred remains classified. we therefore urge the european council to react to the cia torture allegations as soon as possible.
in writing. torture in any form is to be condemned. the fight against terrorism must be compatible with human rights. the similarity of the us and eu positions on this issue is reflected in the 2009 us-eu statement: the fight against terrorism must be in line with international law in particular with human rights and humanitarian law . in this context, it is welcome that us president obama is going to make good on his 2008 election promise and close the military base at guantanamo bay, cuba. the work of european intelligence services in safeguarding internal security is essential, as is cooperation with us intelligence and other services. however, eu member states must respect national law and eu law in this cooperation. i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i have spoken out clearly against the methods used in the parliament's resolution on the cia torture in the united states. the previous abductions and torture must be investigated. the european union is also committed to the protection of human dignity in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i have spoken out clearly against the methods used in the parliament's resolution on the torture by the cia in the united states. the previous abductions and torture must be investigated. the european union is also committed to the protection of human dignity in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the text goes in the right direction: unity towards a common challenge. this cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it. that is what robert schuman declared on 9 may 1950. we should look back to our origin to find the necessary strength to fight terrorism. in the fifties of the last century our response to this big challenge of terror was the eu integration process inspired by the principle of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. i firmly believe this is the way forward once again. we need a transversal action combining cohesion, education and economic policy with security measures that guarantee the respect of fundamental rights and secure legal and public acceptance.
in writing. to fight terrorism, many things have to be done. the resolution on counter-terrorism adopted on wednesday 11 february contains many important demands, including those on de-radicalisation, combating the illegal arms trade in europe, social inclusion and better cooperation between authorities. the spö eu delegation, however, does not support the introduction of an eu-wide pnr system and voted against this proposal. the retention of data of all eu air passengers is inappropriate, disproportionate and incompatible with the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. the court of justice's ruling on the retention of data must be fully respected. the european parliament also decided to have the pnr agreement with canada examined by the ecj. the eu institutions should at least wait for this review before proceeding further on this issue. we regret that the important issue of counter-terrorism is being exploited by the proxies to promote controversial projects such as the eu-pnr, which have already failed in the past. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i voted against the proposal on counter-terrorism measures, as the measures proposed in it will not lead to an improvement in the current situation. only a restrictive immigration policy and a ban on the return of foreign fighters would at least reduce the danger to our population. however, these points are not even mentioned in the policy paper.
in writing. i voted against the proposal. i believe that the fight against terrorist activities requires a determined approach. i do not see that in the proposal. in particular, i miss a ban on the return of foreign jihadists and a much more restrictive immigration policy - both of which i did not see mentioned in the proposal.
in writing. to fight terrorism, many things have to be done. the resolution on counter-terrorism adopted on wednesday 11 february contains many important demands, including those on de-radicalisation, combating the illegal arms trade in europe, social inclusion and better cooperation between authorities. the spö eu delegation, however, does not support the introduction of an eu-wide pnr system and voted against this proposal. the retention of data of all eu air passengers is inappropriate, disproportionate and incompatible with the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. the court of justice's ruling on the retention of data must be fully respected. the european parliament also decided to have the pnr agreement with canada examined by the ecj. the eu institutions should at least wait for this review before proceeding further on this issue. we regret that the important issue of counter-terrorism is being exploited by the proxies to promote controversial projects such as the eu-pnr, which have already failed in the past. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i reject the proposal on counter-terrorism measures because the measures proposed in it will not improve the present situation. only a restrictive immigration policy and a ban on the return of foreign fighters would at least reduce the danger to our population. these points are not even mentioned in the policy paper.
in writing. of all the platforms that contribute to a better understanding of the internet and to democratic multi-stakeholder dialogue, the internet governance forum is the most successful of its kind. the forum's recommendations to the international community on the digital single market are of great importance, as is its role in communicating european values and promoting innovation, growth, trade and diversity. the forum's internet recommendations make it an indispensable platform for all citizens working in the digital space. internet-based economic output already accounts for 11% of total gdp in the eu, with growth rates expected to be 5.7% in this sector. the greater the economic importance, the more important it is to have a stakeholder forum for the exchange of opinions and ideas. i therefore support the proposal to extend the igf's mandate in line with the legal protection provisions of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the internet governance forum describes global measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the internet and access to technological standards. this is also about barrier-free access - everyone should have access to the internet without restrictions. i support this proposal and i am in favour of net neutrality.
in writing. studies have shown that the origin labelling of processed meat is one of the main concerns of consumers. in order to comply with this and to maintain the high food standards of the union and to improve consumer protection, i have agreed to this proposal.
in writing. as i have already mentioned, the continuous and comprehensible indication of the origin of meat is a crucial factor in consumer protection. in order to ensure that this traceability is even better in future and to achieve full traceability, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - studies have shown that the origin labelling of processed meat is one of the main concerns of consumers. in order to comply with this and to maintain the high food standards of the union and to improve consumer protection, i have agreed to this proposal.
in writing. the acp-eu jpa is a special feature of parliamentary work in the eu as a multilateral interparliamentary assembly and is the only interparliamentary assembly established under an international agreement the cotonou agreement . the open dialogue between eu and acp parliamentarians on the implementation of the cotonou provisions, the monitoring of the european development fund and the elements of good governance add value for both the eu and the acp states. the importance of this body in creating a european profile, taking into account the national characteristics of the world, should be emphasized. for this reason, i support this motion and its calls for greater involvement of the council presidency and national parliaments, greater consideration of human rights and the establishment of a post-2015 framework.
in writing. i voted against the report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly, as it is another example of misuse of funds within the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. i voted against the report because i am totally opposed to the work of this assembly and in particular to the fact that members' extensive travel is unnecessary and an excessive burden on the taxpayer.
in writing. - i have refused to approve the report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly, as this is another example of misuse of funds within the european union. five 'information trips' alone, some of which went to very exotic places, cost the taxpayer a huge sum and are therefore not eligible for aid.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. before i go into the details of the agenda, i should like to inform those who have not heard of it that today there was another tragic shipwreck of a full boat of refugees south of sicily, with the possible loss of several hundred lives. i would like to express our deep concern as a parliament about this incident - one of many that has unfortunately been repeated over and over again in recent months and years - and to say that we are following developments very closely and are also committed to ensuring that this type of tragedy does not happen again around our continent.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, in particular in relation to is (2015/2559 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, i was in the kurdistan autonomous region with three colleagues at the beginning of january. we wanted to get first-hand information on the situation in the areas directly terrorized by da'ish. here the worn-out and so often misused term of the "free world" suddenly takes on an elementary meaning, because here our freedom is being defended. the isis minions have pushed mosul, just a few miles away, back centuries. a crazed band of ideologically blinded extremists are setting themselves against all that mankind has achieved in civilization. we talked to a lot of people, not just politicians. there are many things that i just can't get out of my head, like the conversations i had with young yazidi women and girls who had been kidnapped and were able to escape their tormentors. they were sold like animals, abused and raped by their owners. some were barely more than ten years old. they've been through a terrible thing, and they'll probably suffer for the rest of their lives. nevertheless, these 250 women are better off than the 5,000 or so women and girls still deprived of their freedom. they are being held by people who lack humanity in countries with which we have official relations. that's what these women told us. and these people deserve our respect and our attention. they need our support. the region's capacity is already overstretched. the european aid is professionally managed, but it is only a drop in the bucket. clearly, more resources are needed here. but we also have a role to play in europe, in preventing europeans from joining the jihadists.
madam president, you will probably agree that hardly anything has changed since i last addressed this issue here in the house. if anything, things have gotten worse, not better. this is a shame and a tragedy. it is a shame, as the international community is standing idly by in light of ongoing fighting in syria, where we have stopped counting the dead. the first 100 000 deaths made huge headlines. the next 200 000 did not illicit even a shrug. it is also a tragedy with far-reaching consequences. what we are getting in not serving these unfortunate people is a more and more traumatised young generation. in a few years’ time they will resort to the same violence and terror that is the route of many tragic events we have witnessed recently. so it is in our immediate interest to call on all powers in syria and iraq and beyond to bring to an end the fighting and suffering of the peoples in the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'll tell you one thing: i'm from the styrian parliament. for example, it was forbidden to read from the paper, as a colleague had done before. it might help us here, too. now, a new black hole is opening up in one of the poorest countries in the world. as if we don't have enough black holes and as if we don't have enough problem areas on this planet, we're seeing this in yemen. the situation has changed dramatically since january. the situation has far-reaching implications, of course, also and above all for us europeans. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give up the illusion that we can take in all the refugees from arabia and from the troubled areas of the world at the end of the day. yemen is now - you can be sure of that - of particular interest to all sorts of terrorist organizations that are running around there. the example of yemen is yet another example of how harmful and detrimental to europe any american intervention in any part of the world is. this is particularly true of ukraine.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question to neena gill is whether she believes that the gulf cooperation council can play a role in this area and what role the gcc should play.
madam president, mr škripek’s words made me decide to focus on the issue of lgbti rights and the fight against homophobia in this common europe. mr škripek, i was quite surprised. you mentioned there is pressure on the sovereign state, and you meant slovakia, because of the referendum you held. nobody pressured the slovak government or the slovak parliament to decide on a referendum on homophobia. you said there was a huge campaign against this referendum and that was not fair. well, the pictures i saw, most of them, there was even the pope that you used in order to support you. i also had the chance to speak with vice-president of the commission timmermans recently: we really need an action plan, a road map against homophobia in our common europe because we have infringement procedures for laws but we do not have something that helps lgbti people to get their rights when it comes to information, for example. lithuania has prohibited a book of fairy tales that shows lgbt people. we really need an implementation of that with mechanisms and monitoring mechanisms to make sure that lgbti people have the right to live in freedom all over europe. (the president cut off the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, the european union is not only an economic community, it is above all a community of values. this was also defined in the 1993 copenhagen criteria. since then, however, there has been a continuing debate as to whether member states should continue to follow this approach after accession. this is logically often discussed in political controversy. there are also fairly general sanction mechanisms. such a situation is unsatisfactory because it allows individual member states - as in the case of hungary - to override commitments that have been made, often arbitrarily. we therefore urgently need a mechanism which establishes clear commitments. to put this off would be grossly negligent and would damage the union's viability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the current situation reminds us daily, and today again painfully, that we finally need a functioning management of migration and asylum policy at european level. the flows of migration are constantly changing, and we simply cannot and must not respond to recurring disasters. our priorities should and must be a common european asylum system and better border management. easo and frontex are two important tools to move from the current patchwork of measures to a sound common migration and asylum policy. these two institutions should work more closely together in the future and focus on operational measures. if we are to achieve the objective of an open and secure europe, then the current instruments are simply not sufficient. we therefore need to review, rethink and strengthen the mandates of easo and frontex.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question to the previous speaker: you speak, as so many others do, of a 'fortress europe', a 'fortress europe' with barbed wire and very massive equipment. can you answer the question whether it is really a fortress that lets in about 278,000 people a year? or is it just a leaky fence, a wooden fence? or is it really a fortress that is as open as europe was in 2014? perhaps you could answer that kindly.
i have to say, madam president, not a week goes by without a refugee tragedy in the mediterranean. this monday, 29 people froze to death on a ship, and today we have this tragic news. we are affected every time, and i do not know how many times we have discussed this in this house in recent years. each of these incidents and each of the debates that followed reinforced our sense of helplessness. it is dangerous to get used to it, and it is irresponsible to continue as we have been doing. the refugee wave will not subside in the face of the worsening humanitarian situation in our neighbourhood. our instruments - particularly the dublin system - are not designed to do this. we need new approaches, we need new thinking. the main concerns are the relief of the countries at the eu's external borders and the provision of safe entry corridors. the austrian minister of the interior, mrs mikl-leitner, has made an interesting proposal with the 'safe lives' model, and she has also presented this model to this house in the libe committee. the commission and the council should give serious consideration to these proposals.
i have to say, madam president, it is the wrong way to approach the issue of illegal immigration at the level of border security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. first, agreements with the main transit countries are needed to prevent the departure and transit of illegal immigrants already in these countries. the control of trafficking in human beings requires strict controls. we must also say this clearly to turkey. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the union must therefore be more vigilant in monitoring how development aid is used in recipient countries and whether the money is also given to the right people. the work of frontex is not bad, but frontex needs more competence competence to return the illegal persons to their ports of origin accordingly. i think frontex is a good example of the many pointless agencies of the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sexual abuse of children on the internet is a heinous crime. every day, images and videos of abused children are uploaded. we currently have a database of four million images and videos. this stock is growing by 80,000 images and videos a year. 70% of the kids on it are under the age of ten, and the worst part is, the pictures and videos are not deleted. this means that children will be able to experience the drama of life for the rest of their lives. the uk is a best practice example in combating child abuse online. there's a criminal record that represents sexual chats between adults and children on the internet. a special unit has been set up from the national crime agency and the secret service to take more action on the darknet. a database has been set up, budget lines have been set up to provide sufficient staff for this task force. a further £50 million has also been allocated to the global child protection fund. eu countries wanted to do this. unfortunately, the directive has not yet been implemented in all countries. that's not good. paedophiles on the internet are like digital terrorists, and they must be pursued as terrorists , namely with the coordinated action of police and intelligence services, national, european and international. task forces are also to be set up and equipped.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in recent decades burundi has been through tragic developments. it is very positive to note that in this country, which has been tested severely, an increasing number of people are betting that a positive future is possible only through a strengthening of democracy and the rule of law and a guarantee of human rights. the elections scheduled for this year could be an important turning point in this direction. but this requires the unrestricted possibility of free expression. the closer the elections get, the smaller the margins become, and bob rugurika is an important voice for democracy and human rights. we call on the government to release him immediately and unconditionally. i think we should also increase the pressure on the government.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. the judges who sentenced blogger raif badawi to 10 years in prison, a fine and 1,000 lashes in jeddah last may had no idea what they were about to do. it was one of many judgments against critical saudi citizens who do nothing but express their opinions freely. but this case has received worldwide attention, and since then the whole world knows that in saudi arabia, cruel corporal punishment such as beheading is used as a deterrent and flogging is common. all things that, if committed by a terrorist organization, are rightly condemned as heinous crimes. we must not measure with two different scales. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. stability in the region will not be secured by looking the other way. we can only achieve real stability through democratic conditions and a justice system that respects human rights. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i have to agree with you. i believe that human rights are a topos in their own right and that you cannot link them to other things. it is not possible that political considerations make the problem particularly clear in one case and not in another. human rights are above political interests and must be discussed as such.
the commission has already done so. i am very pleased that we have found a large majority of six groups here calling for the unconditional and immediate release of raif badawi. because flogging is execution by hanging! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very much surprised that the european people's party is not part of this broad consensus, this solidarity with raif badawi. why do you think that is? are economic relations and oil really more important to you than the fight against barbaric human rights violations? i guess it has to be. i am very happy that we have managed to do it together - without the european people's party, which is not on our side - to condemn these floggings and to demand their immediate release. let me say a sentence with an austrian context: we are still waiting for the abdullah centre in vienna to finally call for his unconditional release and to condemn this barbaric punishment in a clear and unequivocal way. free raif badawi! he is dead! - right now!
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. it is an unspoken human right that what is left of a person after death is treated with respect by the descendants. antigone, the great heroine of the ancient greeks, has left us this legacy. it is also a human right that the descendants know where their loved ones have found their final resting place and have free access to that place. you have the right to know what death you have found. that is the point of this resolution. there is a strong suspicion that these fundamental rights are being violated in ornithi. this is unacceptable. that is why this resolution is necessary. only in this way is memory work possible, without which there is no future. and for the rest of the memory work, a sentence from antigone's will should apply: we've learned to love, not hate!
in writing. the special committee on tax arrangements and measures similar in nature or effect will be working on the subject of binding tax rulings and prohibited state aid for the next six months and will present a final report. i voted in favour of setting up this special committee to ensure that investigations into tax dumping by multinational companies are carried out.
in writing. this report describes the devastating humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq, which is being exacerbated by the violence of the is terrorist group. despite the good approaches to the fight against terrorism, the report contains too many vague phrases to be voted for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the strategy paper on the european energy union presented today is certainly a step in the right direction, a step towards greater european competitiveness in the global context, a step towards greater european security of supply, a step towards greater economic growth and hence more employment. however, there are some aspects which should be emphasized and which i would ask you to take into account, and these include: the development of strategic partnerships with third countries, but also the development of a sustainable development of the strategic energy partnership with russia and the intensification of regional cooperation, in particular the development of european energy infrastructure, the development of european interconnectors. we need a new market design in europe and we need the capacity mechanisms to be redefined. i also ask you to consider that when reducing co2 in the 2030 and 2020 climate targets, we also have a 20% reindustrialisation target. the diversification package includes the south east corridor, the development of gas fields off cyprus, which is particularly important for us, as well as r & d for smart grids, new storage capacities, and for the national level, i would say to you: please reduce or ensure that the fees and charges on electricity prices are reduced. the wholesale price is right, the retail price is wrong, there's a lot you can do about that. the same applies to the introduction of renewable energies on the market and the implementation of the third energy package.
in writing. the european union is facing enormous challenges in the energy sector. on the one hand, we must diversify our energy sources in the interests of security of supply. on the other hand, there is a need for a strong internal energy market based on the interconnection of electricity grids and a clear commitment to the promotion of renewable energies. there is no question that europe will have to become more independent of russian gas and rely on supply links with other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must drastically reduce energy imports. the money we spend on this every year could be invested more efficiently in renewable energy development, because by creating sustainable, green jobs, we are also boosting the economy. the strategy paper for an energy union, however, lacks a clear rejection of nuclear energy. many areas are interacting within europe on the way to a sustainable energy union. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in this area, and that it is very much aware of the problems facing the community in this area. these are the cornerstones of a sustainable european energy policy. our aim is to make a progressive contribution to a new global climate agreement in paris. finally, global warming must be stopped, and with the right foresight, it can be stopped.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. once again, we are dealing with a council debate, and one gets the impression that from one council meeting to another the picture is getting worse and worse. and in the light of the current situation, it almost seems as if we were on a kind of political titanic, and water is pouring into this ship from all sides, and the powerful of the eu nomenclature are not even finished filling the individual holes, and the water is already up to their ears. ladies and gentlemen, mass unemployment, record bankruptcies, the euro has been shaken, and now you are about to decide that further tax billions will be shovelled towards the peloponnese. and you who will decide that, in truth, you know today that the money lost will be there too. the european union has a conceptual flaw! and the conceptual flaw is centralization, is the regulatory mania and also the surveillance mania, as we have debated here today. and if you are a good, decent european and a european who wants the future of his continent, you are turning back towards a nation, towards a community of sovereign nations cooperating on an equal footing, and you are rejecting this centralization delusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not possible for any of us to give a satisfactory statement in one and a half minutes on the subjects of ukraine, russia, greece, terrorism, immigration and asylum, with proposals for the future. i would therefore like to stick to one principle: no issue is to be considered in isolation; it is always about the whole of europe. these are our problems, not someone else's. the cause of the problems in all these areas is the violation of international and european law and the violation of common values. the answer must therefore be: how can we, on the basis of our common values and rights, give the right answers to these violations of rights? it is not the violation of rights that must change our rights and our values, but our values and our legal community that must create trust, credibility and certainty in the solution of problems. it is therefore outrageous that after an agreement on the basis of our law, the greek prime minister should say on greek television: 'we have only won one battle, but not the war'. it cannot be trust-building for a newspaper of a ruling party to portray mr schäuble as an army officer. i therefore ask that we defend our values and on the ground .... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
in writing. the european central bank will do everything to stabilise the euro, said ecb president mario draghi, who subsequently launched quantitative easing i in 2012. in january 2015, the governing council of the ecb decided on quantitative easing ii. a staggering €1,130 billion will be spent on the purchase of covered bonds and securities from public and private issuers from march onwards. with this enormous money supply and the very low interest rates at the same time, the ecb has exhausted its monetary policy options and can now only appeal to the euro area members to consolidate their budgets and implement structural reforms. only sound fiscal policy, in tandem with sound monetary policy, can overcome the crisis, stimulate investment and strengthen europe's competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in addition to monetary policy, the ecb also performs important supervisory functions for the euro area, namely the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism, the two pillars of the banking union. however, the banking stress test and the asset quality review have shown that there are still major weaknesses in the european banking system. at the same time, the stress tests also reveal the limits of the institutional framework. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i will always speak out against unjust discrimination. that is why i cannot accept that the austrian prosecutor has dropped the case against a man who posted pictures of adolf hitler on facebook with a wish to kill all jews, on the grounds that this was not anti-semitic incitement but legitimate criticism of israel. as a carinthian slovenian, i am not unfamiliar with the feeling of discrimination, open rejection and even hatred. that is why i have made it my goal, as a human being and as a politician, to lend my voice to the weakest in our society. in 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive to address discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation and religion. unfortunately, some member states have expressed doubts about the legal certainty for employers and the cost/benefit calculation. but reality shows that we must put this stalemate behind us and create laws to protect our citizens, which show how important fundamental rights are.
i have to say, madam president, i think it would be good for the subject if we took the emotion back a little, because the subject is an important one and in this case it is harmful. equal treatment of men and women and equality is an important issue. and this issue must concern all of us. just as to how we want to get there - the way i'm following this discussion here - there's massive disagreement. because this report is riddled with ideological nonsense. it is also the primary responsibility of the individual member states to establish a framework for equal opportunities in national law. equal treatment must also be lived in practice at the end of the day. contrary to the style and tone of this report, this socio-political change can only be achieved without coercion and without quotas. the only way to bring about this change is through incentives and gradual steps. it is very important - and i have always said this for a long time - to promote the equality of pay between men and women. equal pay for equal work is one of the highest commandments and must be our goal. however, we also see in austria, in a socialist and övp-influenced government, that we have not been able to achieve this for decades. and as experience shows, laws cannot simply eliminate such inequalities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination in the labour market. that's not gonna happen with us!
mr president, i would like to thank mr tarabella for this good report and i also thank commissioner jourová for her encouraging words and for her commitment to the issue of equality. the gender pay gap, the glass ceiling, an informal effective quota for men, violence against women, gender stereotypes, a lack of self—determination, the freedom of choice for women and a lack of economic independence – we feminists have been struggling against all these and many other things for decades already, and although some things have improved it is still not good. that is why we need reports like this, and i hope there will be a good vote tomorrow. let me say to all of you on the other side of the house: equality includes sexual and reproductive health and rights and it is not a new term invented by anybody here. it is the language of the united nations of twenty years ago in beijing and of 21 years ago in cairo – and yes, it includes the right of women to have access to safe abortion because if it is not safe women risk dying and for no woman is an abortion easy. it would be better to have contraceptives but that is why we also need more eduation about contraceptives for boys and for girls and this report is about that as well. so i wish a happy women’s day to all supporters of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall not go into the reasons why the report by mr tarabella is so good and so important. thank god that many of our colleagues have already said this across the political groups. i would like to address myself in particular to those members who are very critical and opposed to this report. i say to you: do not hide behind the false arguments, such as the alleged problem of subsidiarity or moral concerns. you are not in favour of equality between men and women. you want to continue to discriminate against women and you want to continue to control women's bodies! they talk about protecting unborn life and accept that thousands of women die each year from unsafe abortions because they are denied the necessary health care. but perhaps i am wrong and you will have to change your mind and then tomorrow you will agree to this excellent report by marc tarabella. hello, this is 2015! gender equality policy should be more relevant than ever.
in writing. apart from the gross violation of the principle of subsidiarity, it is also a flagrant violation of all the civil values on which the european union is ultimately based. the member states are to be charged with gender mainstreaming, non-verifiable asylum grounds and the human right to abortion, while the classic model of a family is to be ousted from society. the points raised in the report under the guise of alleged equality between women and men not only call for a quota system in all areas but also explicitly for a human right to abortion. the question remains as to why such an important issue as gender equality has been mixed up with the other issues already mentioned in this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you for your time. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr messerschmidt, for his very fair work, and also thank the other shadow rapporteurs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would like to highlight three points which may be even more important for the future than for the past when we wrote the 2013 report. the first is that we are in favour of investigating aggressive tax competition. it's a bizarre twist that we're discussing this report here on the day that the luxleaks committee meets for the first time at 9 p.m. for a meeting. i wonder whether a special committee, which is to start at 9 p.m. instead of the committee of inquiry we wanted - after all, a quarter of the house has signed up to it - really reflects the intention we have adopted here when we call for an inquiry into aggressive tax competition. i don't think that's enough. on the issue of net neutrality, this report says that it is of the utmost importance that there is no discrimination on the net and in data traffic. this is especially important for start-ups that are mentioned in connection with google. if we create a network in which you can buy a lot of money for a front-end, then this is of particular importance, a particular burden, for small european start-ups. the fact that your colleague, commissioner oettinger, now calls net neutrality advocates taliban is a foretaste of the fact that the commission may not be moving towards net neutrality in the next few years. i would ask you to work in that direction. perhaps you can comment on this now. the third issue is energy. we are in favour of promoting renewable energy, of taking sustainability into account. how can this be reconciled with the approval of the funding for the hinkley point nuclear power station, which is far above what renewable energies are allowed to receive in europe? this is a massive distortion of competition, sanctioned by your predecessor, mr almunia, who, in his last speech before this house, told the lie to parliament on this point. we must be more decisive here too. it's a russian decision now. i hope, however, that you will take a political stance in this direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. competitiveness is certainly the key driver of economic growth and employment in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. both parameters are not in the best shape in europe at the moment. europe is losing competitiveness in the global context. let me give you a few examples. europe now has twice the unemployment rate of the united states. in the last five years, six million jobs have been lost in europe, compared with one million in the united states and japan combined. energy prices in europe are - and this has already been said today - twice as high for electricity and three to four times as high for gas as in the usa, india or russia. the average tax burden in relation to gdp is 50% higher in europe than in the usa and 30% higher than in japan. it will not surprise you to know that there is also a huge gap in research and development between europe and the united states, 100 billion dollars a year. europe is lagging behind in direct investment, we have had a huge decline in the last fifteen years, as well as in access to finance and in the efficiency of public administration. the rapporteur has therefore identified some very good points in his report, namely strategic priorities for this parliamentary term. these are: fair and clear competition rules, respect for subsidiarity and national court decisions, the fight against cartels and monopolies, clear rules against market abuse, reform of state aid regulation and a coherent, pro-competitive tax policy. stakeholders are to be involved. in this way we will be able to formulate a competition policy that strengthens entrepreneurship, stimulates innovation and creates benefits for consumers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 march. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the objectives of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, the european union's action plan for the environment and sustainable development, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's
the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. we can only be a competitive europe if we have as many healthy people as possible here in europe who are not endangered by endocrine disruptors. that sounds so technical. let's just say what it is: hormone disruptors, substances that contribute to the fact that people do not develop healthily in the womb, substances that contribute to the fact that our young people simply do not have the intelligence that they could have if these substances were no longer on the market. let us not hide behind economic interests and in doing so put europe's economic base at risk. we need people at the centre, and we need legislation for those people that has to come quickly. mr andriukaitis, you are not to blame for this, but you can help to make this debt grow, or help to keep this europe healthy, to make it healthier and to keep it economically strong.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with all due respect to your presidency, you may have missed the fact that i was in the chamber during the whole debate, that i had correctly identified myself and that i would have liked to speak as an austrian whose country is also very much affected by the sanctions. i do not think it is very balanced that you give the floor to a large number of colleagues but do not give the floor to a non-attached member. i also think it is not appropriate that you should give the floor to a very large number of ladies and gentlemen from your own country. other countries are also affected! i'll say this for the record: that was not balanced for me. i ask you to correct that in future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 2013, around 120 000 asylum seekers from north africa and the middle east entered the union. how many of these are sympathizers of islamist movements or even belong to them themselves could be statistically calculated with a simple computer program. but european politics clearly does not want to acknowledge that we are facing an ever-growing islamist time bomb. it is therefore no surprise that individuals and groups closely linked to the islamists are being courted, indeed supported, by the official eu side, such as the chairman of the al-muntada foundation, who was invited to the last annual meeting of the european commission for humanitarian aid and civil protection and whose foundation is allegedly one of the funders of boko haram. i therefore call on the eu institutions concerned to be a little more critical of islamism, to stop giving islamists a platform and not to allow islamists to enter our parliament through the back door out of ignorance or stupidity.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. "good things take time", they say in austria. this good thing we're talking about today, the question of truck weights and dimensions, has really taken a little longer. but we came to a good end. i was very pleased to see that the proposal for this report was adopted unanimously in the committee on transport for a second reading. that's not always the case, and it shows that we've worked very well together. it also shows that joint solutions can be found when necessary and appropriate. the european parliament, together with the council, has taken this commission proposal further and modified its content. we have taken the view - and this is the first point - that there is no need for any new legislation on crossborder travel. those who have crossed borders with larger, heavier and taller trucks can continue to do so. those who do not want to do so do not have to do so and do not have to allow such trucks to pass through these countries. that is the position we have had so far, and it is good that it has remained that way. that's what we decided. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. we have made sure that lorries will be safer in the future, safer for drivers, but also and above all safer for other road users, for weaker road users, by changing the shape of the cabs in particular, but also by improving the all-round visibility, because in urban traffic in particular there are still many serious and fatal accidents involving lorries. we have also made sure that in the future trucks will be more environmentally friendly, on the one hand by allowing other methods of propulsion, more environmentally friendly methods of propulsion, but on the other hand also by changes in the design of the trucks, in the rear by introducing so-called rear flaps - i think the english expression is almost the better one here - and in the front by the possibility of modifying the cabin shape. there are also facilities for intermodal transport. this is also important because we have such different traffic situations in europe. if you compare central europe with northern europe, for example, the distances are quite different. that was important, too. we have also dealt with the problem of overloading trucks. the drivers are held responsible if the truck is overloaded. therefore, they must also be able to detect if it is overloaded. we will continue to do so in the future and we have done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. once again, thank you for your excellent cooperation. i look forward to a lively and interesting debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the difficulties we have had in this report have been enormous. i listened with great interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, mr taylor, who wants to see green grass everywhere. of course, it is difficult to reach a compromise. but i think we did it. i beg you both to forgive me for the over-drafting, but for the presentation, i think it was more appropriate. a very interesting topic was the question of subsidiarity, which was raised by mrs arnautu, mrs seymour, mr lundgren and mr etheridge at the end. yes, subsidiarity is good. but we live in a single market. if each country in this single market were to adopt different technical specifications for lorries, what would be the situation? one country, for example, allows these flaps, the next country this truck wants to go to, doesn't. do you have to reload the truck at the border? this is not the way! there must be certain rules which apply to the whole of the internal market, particularly in the transport sector. because otherwise this transportation economy wouldn't work. you have to admit that. of course, british lorries can also go to europe, across the continent and back again. we can do that because we have the same rules. it's good we have the same rules here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. where was the national front when we were working? just talking and getting upset that something's wrong isn't enough for me. if i want something, i'll work with you! mrs arnautu is paid well enough to be involved and not just to say something every two years, which gives the impression that she has not even read the text. so, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your cooperation, thank you very much for your support. i am very curious to see how the vote will turn out.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr hayes. we have a lot of projects in the banks at the moment from companies which cannot be implemented because they are not feasible due to lack of equity and risk capital. do you see any possibilities here for projects that pay off, that have a return on investment, that create jobs, but cannot be finalised due to lack of equity and risk capital, to be taken into account in the juncker plan?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the committee on budgets, i am naturally concerned to show a willingness to negotiate in the area of commitments, but not in the area of payments. i think that we can move a lot of things with a front loading and make the sum available accordingly. but it must be clear by the midterm review where fresh money is coming from in order to implement these plans accordingly. i would suggest that member states should consider, for example, the issue of crossborder licensing. these licences, for example for mobile spectrum, could be advertised in all 28 member states in one day. the sum collected here is made available to the member states to pay into the european investment bank, the european investment fund, as equity capital, as capital increase, so that it remains the property of the member states. you can support your own projects with european added value or you can use the european union's payments. it would also be possible to generate a return on these investments for the user charges of the infrastructure concerned, thereby increasing the european union's own resources in the future and improving its solvency.
in writing. ‒ poland applied for egf assistance following the redundancies of 615 employees at the zakladi chemizne zachem plant and two supplier plants, as well as the downstream producers zachem ucr sp. z o.o. and metalko sp. z o.o. these job losses were the result of major structural changes in the world trade pattern due to globalisation, in particular the decline in the global market share of european companies in the chemical industry. the measures concern the 50 employees who have the greatest difficulty in finding new jobs. i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the situation in the chemical sector has become extremely critical as a result of the shift from poland to china. it is important to consider measures which can help to strengthen this sector again. the aim is to help workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because the situation of the chemical sector has become extremely precarious with the shift from poland to china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to provide germany with €1 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 476 former employees of aleo solar ag and two subsidiaries find new jobs. these terminations were the result of structural changes in the world trade pattern due to globalisation, in particular the decreasing share of european companies in the global solar module market. as the payments are not a kind of supplementary unemployment benefit but measures to reintegrate the persons concerned into the labour market, i agree with the request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because we need to take measures to cushion the damage caused to the german economy in recent years. these losses were caused by shifts in the pattern of world trade, by overproduction and by saturation of the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ i also approved this proposal. the shift in the pattern of world trade and the overproduction and saturation of the market mean that we must take measures to cushion the damage caused to the german economy.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied for assistance following the redundancies at two producers of base metals (duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa) in the hainaut region. the redundancies in hennegau were the result of a rapid decline in the market share of european companies in the production of crude steel worldwide, combined with a decline in steel demand in the automotive and construction industries as a result of the economic crisis and a relative increase in production costs. the measures would help 701 steelworkers in hennegau to find new jobs. i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, as it is necessary to support companies that are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and that meet the conditions for using the european globalisation adjustment fund. the shift of the market structure to china and the declining demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu led to the loss of many jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ the decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction industries, and a shift in the market structure to china, led to massive redundancies in the above-mentioned company. since all the criteria for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund are met, this should be supported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the job losses at arcelormittal were the result of major structural changes in the world trade pattern, i.e. a rapid decline in the market share of european companies in the production of crude steel. this was compounded by a decline in demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction industries as a result of the economic crisis and a relative increase in production costs. the measures co-financed by the egf would provide 630 workers from arcelor mittal with support in finding new jobs. the tools for this are active career guidance, support in finding a job, vocational training and retraining, support for entrepreneurship and contributions to collective projects. the importance of these projects for the people involved cannot be underestimated. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the steel industry has been subject to severe economic disruption and a rapid decline in the eu's market share, leading to major structural changes in the world trade pattern and consequent large numbers of redundancies in the sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ since 'arcelormittal' fulfils all the conditions for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the application for such a mobilisation is to be supported. the steel industry in particular has been hit hard by the crisis and the accompanying declines in the automotive and construction markets.
in writing. ‒ the job losses at caterpillar were the result of major structural changes in the world trade pattern, i.e. a rapid decline in the market share of european companies. this was compounded by a decline in demand for machinery in the automotive and construction industries in the eu as a result of the economic crisis and a relative increase in production costs. the measures co-financed by the egf would provide 910 caterpillar workers with support in finding new jobs. the tools for this are active career guidance, support in finding a job, vocational training and retraining, support for entrepreneurship and contributions to collective projects. the importance of these projects for the people involved cannot be underestimated. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal because it is necessary to support workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and a shift of market share to asia. since 2007, the caterpillar group has opened plants in emerging markets in asia and latin america and its growth is largely linked to these markets. consequently, caterpillar is strongly affected by a decline in demand for this type of product in europe, which in turn led to a significant shift of production capacity to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this proposal. according to the data cited by the belgian authorities, caterpillar's production sites are located close to its markets, which explains the link between the developments on the european and world markets and the reduction in staff at the gosselies site. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the unemployed, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to help the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the report includes sensible measures with little to no additional cost to adapt the technical transport of goods by lorry to the 21st century. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the present directive is a sensible and welcome step towards adapting intermodal freight transport to the 21st century. that is why i was able to support this report without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the request because i believe it is important to adapt the legal standards for road vehicles to technical progress and also because i believe that the transport sector in particular is a crucial building block in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the present directive is a sensible and welcome step towards adapting intermodal freight transport to the 21st century. that is why i was able to support this report without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ europe needs strong and competitive regulation of long-term investment funds to provide incentives for private investors to invest in long-term infrastructure projects. the proposal presented here provides a good framework for a regulated introduction of long-term, regulated investment, which is important for the development of european infrastructure projects and can make a significant contribution to economic recovery. that is why i support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on european long-term investment funds (eltifs) because they provide a lasting source of finance for a wide range of infrastructure projects and thus contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of its policies. the eltifs also address investor information gaps and thus strengthen investor confidence. the general ban on the use of derivatives is not, however, in the interest of investor protection.
in writing. ‒ despite some doubts about the form of the proposal for a european long-term investment fund, i believe that the proposal as a whole is appropriate to stimulate long-term, regular investment in the european economy. in particular, i hope that the proposal will also contribute to the economic recovery of the union. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal because the pan-european rules for funds that may be marketed under the eltif designation will reduce investor information gaps and thus increase investor confidence. however, the blanket ban on the use of derivatives is not in the sense of investor protection.
in writing. ‒ card fees for domestic and international transactions can have a negative impact on household costs. low card charges can relieve household costs. the proposed fee reduction of 0.2% of turnover for credit card transactions and 0.3% for atm card transactions is also an important step towards boosting cross-border transactions by individuals and expanding e-commerce. the report also calls for greater data protection. for these reasons i can only agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interchange fee regulation for card-based payments, as i am very much in favour of the mif regulation, which limits the level of interchange fees for card payments and prevents anti-competitive business rules and practices.
in writing. ‒ the report promises a lot of good things. an example would be the reduction of hidden charges for private customers, which in total amount to about eur 6 billion per year, which are thus reduced. it will also increase the transparency of card transactions and pave the way for the introduction of innovative payment technologies. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the regulation on interchange fees for card-based payments. i can support the mif regulation, which limits the amount of interbank charges for card payments and prevents anti-competitive business rules and practices.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied for €1.3 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 257 former saint-gobain sekurit benelux employees find new jobs. these job losses were the result of major structural changes in the world trade pattern due to globalisation, in particular the declining market share of european companies in the manufacture of automotive safety glass. as the employees were not responsible for their dismissal and the aid does not constitute additional unemployment benefit, i agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the application for the european globalisation adjustment fund was approved. the production of safety glass for the automotive industry has been subject to serious economic disruption, which has led to a number of redundancies at sgs benelux. the aim is to help these dismissed workers to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the material and formal conditions for the mobilisation of the fund for adaptation to globalisation are met in the present case and i hope that the funds provided will enable the employees and workers concerned to benefit from future prospects. i hope that this will also have positive aspects for the economic prosperity of the region.
in writing. ‒ although this application does not meet all the eligibility guidelines, i have nevertheless supported it. the extremely difficult market situation, the increasing import of safety glass into the eu and serious economic disruptions have put saint-gobain-sekurit in a difficult position.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report presented. in my work as a member of parliament i have always been a strong advocate of equality between men and women, but i am not convinced by the systemic approach of the report. it not only violates the subsidiarity principle of the eu treaties, but also calls into question established rules in the member states, such as the abolition of time limits. the report also advocates quotas in terms of content, a proposal which i cannot support either. i also believe that funding agencies and programmes that uncritically engage in 'gender studies' does not contribute to achieving real equality between men and women.
in writing. ‒ the epp delegation has made its agreement to this report conditional on paragraph 45, which calls for easy access to abortion and urges member states to take appropriate measures. the epp and the epp support equality for women, provided that it is achieved in a legally and socially correct and appropriate framework. but we cannot accept today or in the future, especially in official positions in the european parliament, that abortion is trivialized under the guise of women's sexual and reproductive health. the european union has no competence in the field of family policy, which is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. this subsidiary arrangement is a sensible one and will be defended by our delegation in the future.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report. in particular, the attempt to implement a human right to abortion is not to be supported in any way. this would violate much of the existing western legal framework and would create a host of problems. only member states themselves can act in this area originally entrusted to the state , and only if it is in accordance with the will of the people.
in writing. ‒ i think it’s essential that parliament express itself on the implementation of such an important strategy. we need to talk and debate about the slow progress in achieving gender equality in europe concerning in particular sexual and reproductive health and rights, measures to increase women’s representation in decision making/business leadership and maternity leave in order to change the current situation. this report underlines the fact that female employment rate is just at 63%, and the gender pay gap stands at 16.4%. almost a third of employed women work part-time, compared to 8% of men. women should no longer be a gender minority.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to approve the report. the report is intended, partly through the back door and partly quite openly, to introduce measures of gender mainstreaming, to devalue the traditional family and to legalise abortion in general. the report also fails to take account of the principle of subsidiarity, since it concerns areas of competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report because it does not support the attempt to implement a human right to abortion. this would violate almost all existing western legal bases and would cause a host of problems.
in writing. ‒ women are still not equal to men in the 21st century. women earn less for the same work, women and girls are enslaved and trafficked in many parts of the world, and single mothers and retired women are among the most vulnerable groups to poverty. all of this is unacceptable. we must do everything we can to achieve equality. to deny women the right to control their own bodies is not only politically unacceptable, it is disrespectful and disgusting. two days ago was international women's day. debates such as this one on the tarabella report show how urgently this day is still needed today. i am working for a world where no one is discriminated against because of gender, ethnicity, sexuality, religion, etc. that is why i voted for this report and i thank the 440 colleagues who have done the same and thus shown that women's rights are human rights.
in writing. ‒ as the spö eu delegation, we voted unanimously against the report by mr messerschmidt on eu competition policy. there are two main reasons for this: firstly, the report calls on the commission to continue to tackle the dismantling of state-owned railway companies. this means further liberalisation and privatisation. we know from experience that this is always to the detriment of the customers. it will not lead to 'fairer competition', as is often claimed, but it will lead to private companies taking the most profitable routes and reaping the benefits. remote areas must then continue to be served by the state-owned enterprises in order to ensure a basic service and basic infrastructure. at the same time, contrary to what many people claim, prices for customers will rise. secondly, we wanted to stress that the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement procedures in free trade agreements (e.g. the isds procedure in the eu-us ttip free trade agreement) deprives member states of the democratic right to implement their own policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these provisions are not in the interests of the citizens of austria and europe and therefore the spö-eu delegation has rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ as the spö eu delegation, we voted unanimously against the report by mr messerschmidt on eu competition policy. there are two main reasons for this: firstly, the report calls on the commission to continue to tackle the dismantling of state-owned railway companies. this means further liberalisation and privatisation. we know from experience that this is always to the detriment of the customers. it will not lead to 'fairer competition', as is often claimed, but it will lead to private companies taking the most profitable routes and reaping the benefits. remote areas must then continue to be served by the state-owned enterprises in order to ensure a basic service and basic infrastructure. consumer prices will also increase, contrary to many claims. secondly, we wanted to stress that the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement procedures in free trade agreements (e.g. the isds procedure in the eu-us ttip free trade agreement) deprives member states of the democratic right to implement their own policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. these provisions are certainly not in the interests of the citizens of austria and europe and therefore the spö-eu delegation has rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ effective competition is a prerequisite for the success of european businesses, job creation and the standard of living of citizens. fair and open competition is a driver of innovation and an incentive for entrepreneurship, growth and employment, i.e. for those economic factors which are crucial to overcoming the financial crisis. the task of policy is to create the conditions in which these competitive mechanisms can function. the points raised by the rapporteur and commissioner vestager are extremely important, are supported by parliament, and in particular by the econ committee, and must be taken into account in future legislation. competition policy has advanced the four freedoms, increased consumer protection, and strengthened living standards and entrepreneurial freedoms. no one can deny that the power of innovation is most effective when it is born of healthy competition. i support the report as it has been presented.
in writing. ‒ as the spö eu delegation, we voted unanimously against the report by mr messerschmidt on eu competition policy. there are two main reasons for this: firstly, the report calls on the commission to continue to tackle the dismantling of state-owned railway companies. this means further liberalisation and privatisation. we know from experience that this is always to the detriment of the customers. it will not lead to 'fairer competition', as is often claimed, but it will lead to private companies taking the most profitable routes and reaping the benefits. remote areas must then continue to be served by the state-owned enterprises in order to ensure a basic service and basic infrastructure. consumer prices will also increase, contrary to many claims. secondly, we wanted to stress that the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement procedures in free trade agreements (e.g. the isds procedure in the eu-us ttip free trade agreement) deprives member states of the democratic right to implement their own policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. these provisions are certainly not in the interests of the citizens of austria and europe and therefore the spö-eu delegation has rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report because competition policy and competitiveness in general are crucial to the well-being and success of the eu and its citizens. meps are elected to represent the interests and concerns of their constituency. competition policy must benefit consumers, businesses and society as a whole. the commission's proposal that the commissioners responsible for competition policy should meet with meps in order to better understand and take account of the concerns of this electorate is therefore only supportive.
in writing. ‒ sustainable framework conditions for stimulating economic growth and employment are imperative in europe. only together can we boost competition in europe and strengthen businesses. we must work together to create benefits for consumers and to invest specific funds in research and development. i voted for this report because of the need.
in writing. ‒ as the spö eu delegation, we voted unanimously against the report by mr messerschmidt on eu competition policy. there are two main reasons for this: firstly, the report calls on the commission to continue to tackle the dismantling of state-owned railway companies. this means further liberalisation and privatisation. we know from experience that this is always to the detriment of the customers. it will not lead to 'fairer competition', as is often claimed, but it will lead to private companies taking the most profitable routes and reaping the benefits. remote areas must then continue to be served by the state-owned enterprises in order to ensure a basic service and basic infrastructure. consumer prices will also increase, contrary to many claims. secondly, we wanted to stress that the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement procedures in free trade agreements (e.g. the isds procedure in the eu-us ttip free trade agreement) deprives member states of the democratic right to implement their own policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. these provisions are certainly not in the interests of the citizens of austria and europe and therefore the spö-eu delegation has rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because the suggestions and improvements it contains are very commendable. meps are elected to represent the interests and concerns of their constituency. competition policy must benefit consumers, businesses and society as a whole. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to take account of the concerns of the public.
in writing. ‒ as the spö eu delegation, we voted unanimously against the report by mr messerschmidt on eu competition policy. there are two main reasons for this: firstly, the report calls on the commission to continue to tackle the dismantling of state-owned railway companies. this means further liberalisation and privatisation. we know from experience that this is always to the detriment of the customers. it will not lead to 'fairer competition', as is often claimed, but it will lead to private companies taking the most profitable routes and reaping the benefits. remote areas must then continue to be served by the state-owned enterprises in order to ensure a basic service and basic infrastructure. consumer prices will also increase, contrary to many claims. secondly, we wanted to stress that the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement procedures in free trade agreements (e.g. the isds procedure in the eu-us ttip free trade agreement) deprives member states of the democratic right to implement their own policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. these provisions are certainly not in the interests of the citizens of austria and europe and therefore the spö-eu delegation has rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because the ecb was unable to achieve its own objectives, which means that it is not possible to evaluate these objectives. that is why i could not vote for or against the report.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank for 2013 provides a good overview of the ecb's activities. in general, the annual report contains good approaches, but its design does not provide sufficient critical coverage of the ecb's work. i expect a more critical and realistic report in the future and have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because the ecb has not succeeded in achieving the objectives it has set itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. i welcome olaf's work in the fight against fraud. the achievements in the fight against fraud are largely due to the many staff who, despite the fact that some of the data are inaccurate, are trying to detect inconsistencies and cases of fraud. it is particularly difficult to detect false data and errors in non-transparent financial behaviour. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i see a lot of these statistical inconsistencies and manipulations. the information that parliament receives, particularly in this area, is unfortunately only fragmentary. i therefore call for more transparent work with valid figures and data in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr tannock, for his very good cooperation and, also from our group, for a good report because it focuses on the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of the judiciary, media freedom, and all the things that are important – rights of minorities, gender equality and foreign policy. i also agree with what was said in the report, namely that montenegro has made progress in recent years and i am glad that already 16 chapters have been opened. nevertheless, i would like to state here as well what is in this report because it says that the fight against corruption and organised crime is, and will be, the litmus test for an independent, efficient and professional judiciary in the country. i hope we will see more progress here in the future. there are also positive things in the report and positive progress in the country with regard to an end to discrimination, where the roma and lgbti people are concerned. and yet hatred, hate speech and fear—mongering still exist. i would nevertheless like to say that i appreciate that the government of montenegro has made very clear statements and also taken action in the fight against hatred against lgbti people, and will be hosting a high-level ministerial meeting in budva at the beginning of may on the fight against homophobia with european union and enlargement countries. there is one thing i would have especially liked to see more of in the report, and that is ecology and the environment. of course, montenegro’s constitution states that it is an ecological state, and we appreciate that. but nevertheless, more than 25% of europe’s biodiversity is in the western balkans, and the last remaining free—flowing rivers in europe. so i really would appreciate it if the government of montenegro would stop reconsidering plans to build hydropower plants, affecting wild rivers, without having first implemented the sustainable hydropower guiding principles of the danube river protection convention. finally, i would like to thank commissioner hahn for his very clear statement that there is no doubt that the integration process will continue. for there is one amendment that we have proposed for all four reports where we regret that the now—president of the commission, mr juncker, during the election campaign, said there would be no enlargement for the next five years. to conclude, i hope that we will not demotivate people in the region further, but really encourage them to go forward with the integration process.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr loiseau, if i understand you correctly, you said that the project of integration with the balkans is suicidal. we are here in strasbourg, a city between france and germany. do you not think that the project of integration of the balkans complements the project of integration of the countries of europe, with the aim of avoiding wars in the future, as in the former yugoslavia?
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution tabled under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure (see minutes). the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution tabled under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure (see minutes). the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2014 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2014/2948 ((rsp)).
i will allow only one blue card per speaker.
mr. preda, there is a blue card for you from mr. kefalogiannis. yes, this is a question from the ppe to the ppe. (mr preda refuses to answer a question from mr kefalogiannis)
madam president, i decided to ask for another catch—the—eye procedure because i have a question for mr plenković. we talked in the break about your criticism and your amendment about universal jurisdiction and you have now explained it as well. in the meantime, i have tried to find out more about it. i found out that the law that you now want to abolish with that amendment was already abolished in 2003 and that everybody, including the commission and the international community, has accepted that. there was also the case of mr veljko marić which was done under that, and at that time, before he was convicted, the croatian state attorney provided the serbian war crimes prosecutor with the key witnesses and full legal and technical assistance in that case under that law. i do not really understand why you want to do away with that, and as far as i understood, it is also universal jurisdiction and not just for what is ex—yugoslavia. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i should like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for very good cooperation in reaching a largely consensual text which i hope will have a good majority tomorrow. let me start by describing the references to kosovo over the last weeks and months in many of our member states. it recently hit the headlines with thousands of asylum-seekers coming across serbia into hungary and then austria, germany and other countries. this is something that again raised the context of the situation in kosovo. i am really happy to see that this has gone down over the last weeks because many people in kosovo have realised that they have been given the illusion of promises through rumours, and that these are illusions. we demand in this report that both serbia and the kosovo authorities really clamp down on traffickers who feed into these illusions so that in the future we will not have these many asylum seekers in member states. let me also make one thing clear. in this report, as in many others before, i demand fast visa liberalisation for kosovo. i am sure that if we already had visa liberalisation then people would not feel so locked—in in their country and would be able to go for three months to the european union and return and would not have the feeling that they need to leave because this was not provided for them. i am glad that commissioner avramopoulous has just recently said that kosovo is walking the last mile and he will soon have good news for kosovo; so i hope this will come through very soon. of course, the economic and social situation has to improve, especially for young people, and the fight against corruption and organised crime has to be stepped up by the new government, including in high—ranking parts of their own parties and organisations; otherwise the trust of citizens will not improve. i also welcome the fact that a government was formed after some six months of stalemate, but only two women in a government of 21 really is not acceptable. i also hope that the kosovo assembly will soon pass the law on the special court. let me say one thing: this is not about kla in general; it is about certain individuals of kla who might have committed crimes. i am glad the dialogue between serbia and kosovo has resumed; there are still things that have to be implemented. for example, kosovo mps are still not allowed to participate in all regional meetings, for example in the secp process of the parliamentary assembly, so progress still needs to go ahead there and i think serbia also has to move on. one thing i also criticise is that five member states still do not recognise kosovo. this blocks progress, and i am glad to hear from commissioner hahn that the saa will be put to the council later in the spring; i hope there will be an agreement and that soon kosovo will be on its way. i do not have any more time so please read the text. it is also about eulex and about investigations on corruption allegations inside eulex. these are harming the credibility of the european union; we need swift investigations. i hope we will have a good vote tomorrow to make sure that this european parliament stands behind an independent kosovo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the current debate on the council summit shows once again how far-fetched the european union's policy really is. while the council's agenda includes the situation in ukraine and russia, the european commission, in the person of mr juncker, president of the commission, is calling for the creation of an eu army and is also saying that this eu army should be deployed against russia if necessary. that needs some explaining. perhaps the president of the commission, who will speak afterwards, can explain what he means by the creation of an eu army. then we march against russia? i think this is the wrong way to go. we should use every fiber of our political activity to support peace measures, not add more fuel to the fire. if you look at the current developments in the european union, where today the euro is almost at parity with the dollar, and draghi has warned that it will fall to 85%, it may soon be game over. and they are all well advised to develop the union again towards a community of sovereign states that cooperate with each other and that do not allow themselves to be restricted by centralism in their spheres of action. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not asking you to give your opinion. we live in a democracy. but i come from a neutral country and i am fighting with every fiber of my political activity to maintain that neutrality. i do not want my home country, austria, to be integrated into an international army which may be used as a pawn here and there under the direction of the americans. whoever wants to make this euro-army should do it, but not with the participation of austria!
in writing. the european council meeting on 19 and 20 march will focus on the energy union, relations with russia and the situation in ukraine. the creation of an energy union is one of the priorities for the current period from the economic point of view. the energy union's key pillars are to improve energy security, the eu's internal energy market, the increased deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency. the aim is to reduce dependence on imports of oil and natural gas and to make energy more affordable in principle. the heads of state or government will also discuss the general economic situation and provide member states with guidelines for the preparation of their national reforms and stability and convergence programmes. member states are more hesitant to implement the country-specific recommendations, i.e. in particular to implement structural reforms. so far, only 22% of the main country-specific recommendations have been implemented. however, without the necessary structural reforms in the member states, the current monetary policy measures of the ecb will be ineffective and the effects of the low euro exchange rate and the low oil price will not be sustainable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased to say that the greens are in favour of a fundamental reform of the european semester and of strengthening the social dimension, and urgently so. the european union's credibility is at stake when we talk about sustainability, job security and the fight against poverty. but it is also a question of the confidence of europe's citizens in the failed austerity policy. i think the focus of recent years on competitiveness and economic growth has failed. we need sustainable social reforms here. that is why the adoption of today's report by the committee on employment and social affairs on the employment and social policy aspects of the annual growth report is so important. it contains concrete proposals on how to invest in social policy and strengthen the social dimension of the european semester, whether by developing the social criteria that need to be aligned with macroeconomic ones or by finally getting the europe 2020 objectives off the rails and finally giving priority to the objectives of poverty reduction, climate protection and gender equality. we need - and previous speakers have said this - public investment, including and especially in public and social services. we in the green group are strongly in favour of strengthening the democratic political dimension of the european semester, not only with the full co-responsibility and co-determination of the european parliament, but also with the involvement of civil society, as has been discussed many times in this house. the adoption of today's report is a step in the right direction for social and civic reform.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i cannot share the euphoria of my predecessor, because this cannot go on. the european union is not a theatre of lies! only 8% of the commission's reform recommendations are implemented by the member states. i therefore say to the heads of state and government: shame on you! there is a lack of sincerity and a lack of seriousness here. 43% of reform measures have been partially implemented, 49% have not made any progress at all. ladies and gentlemen, precisely because voluntary budgetary coordination is clearly not working properly, we need an eu finance minister, an eu budgetary policy, an eu economic and social policy and a sanction mechanism against all member states that are unwilling to reform.
in writing. the conservative-neoliberal economic policy, which has pursued a rigid austerity policy at the expense of the citizen, has failed. there can be no effective social policy if economic policy is fundamentally opposed to it. this is why a reorientation of eu economic policy and thus of economic governance with a stronger integration of social dialogue is imperative for positive developments in the social and economic spheres. the growing investment gap is currently estimated at eur 230 to 370 billion. it is therefore all the more important that we actively support president juncker's investment plan, especially member states with surpluses need to show more initiative through investment activity. public investment, especially in areas such as social services or social housing, is crucial and should therefore be excluded from the deficit calculation. the employment policy is facing major challenges, which have been sharply exacerbated by the crisis: in 2014, 50% of all new jobs created were temporary contracts. social dumping and increasingly precarious employment models are just two of the issues facing workers today. our task in the european union is to help the eu citizens out of the crisis and to relieve them through a progressive economic policy. finally, macroeconomic indicators must be given the same importance as macroeconomic criteria in order to alleviate the social crisis.
in writing. the european single market is the union's greatest economic achievement. it offers firms a 'home market' of 500 million consumers, giving these consumers uniform rights and protection across borders. the functioning of the internal market is an important pillar of the european semester and a guarantee of growth and competitiveness. the crisis has led to distortions and distortions of competition in the single market, and it is welcome that all the major political groups have recognised that we cannot leave the single market to itself. the market also needs barriers, rules and regulation. i support the call in this report for the introduction of an annual 'internal market governance' cycle as part of the european semester. the internal market must also adapt to the digital age in order to fully exploit the economic and innovative potential of the digital single market. we must also ensure that the social, environmental and consumer protection standards of the internal market cannot be undermined by trade or investment agreements.
in writing. ‒ since this proposal is only about correcting technical problems in import regulations from third countries which have arisen as a result of eu treaty amendments, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the common rules for imports from certain third countries, as it seeks to correct technical problems in third country import regulations and the resulting treaty changes on the eu side. the import of goods from third countries should be regulated, particularly in technical matters.
in writing. ‒ the report on the common rules for imports from certain third countries addresses the correction of technical problems in third country import rules and the resulting eu treaty changes. i welcome these rules, since the import of goods from third countries needs to be regulated precisely on technical grounds.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro, as any rapprochement of montenegro with the european union is seen as another provocation towards russia. the enormous costs the union has to bear with little benefit can be seen in the case of moldova.
in writing. ‒ the proposal provides an impetus for stability in the region. but at the same time i see the danger that this will lead to another step towards enlargement of the eu, against the express wishes of the majority of our citizens. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ since the eu has to bear enormous costs with little benefit in bringing montenegro closer, but the country is still part of the european family of states, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ domestic producers of high-quality meat and cereal products are not sufficiently supported. i am not in favour of a system of tariff quotas unless this changes and domestic producers are given more support.
in writing. ‒ until domestic producers of high-quality meat and cereals are given more support, i cannot support a tariff quota system. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly rejected the proposal to import agricultural products originating in turkey into the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed the scheme for importing agricultural products originating in turkey into the eu, as i believe that it would place an additional burden on domestic agricultural producers which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to suspend certain concessions on the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey into the union, as i do not support the concessions system in principle.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is indeed to be regarded as a consolidation which is, in principle, appropriate to increase legal certainty and transparency of legislation in the union. however, i am against the proposal in the main, as i see the danger that it will facilitate the import of agricultural goods from turkey into the union. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the suspension of certain concessions on the import of agricultural products from turkey into the union, as i do not support the regime of concessions as such. it is therefore only logical to reject this regulation as well.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this point because the proposals are not yet ready, but such a commission is nevertheless necessary to protect european fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because we need to support the rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, as i do not think that the creation of such an institution would add value to europe. the institutions within the union should also be strengthened rather than weakened.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. in theory, the objectives of the common fisheries policy are valid, namely to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited under economically, ecologically and socially sustainable conditions, applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem approach. this also applies to areas beyond the territorial waters of the member states and community waters. i cannot express my full support for this report because of certain phrases and i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the creation of another institution is contrary to my conviction that the institutions within the union are being dismantled rather than being built up. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ since mr zagorakis is in favour of the waiver of his immunity, i support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the personal injury alleged is not related to his political activity. that is why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, because, first of all, the alleged offence is clearly not related to the position of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his position as president of the football club paok. moreover, it is the only way for the authorities to clarify the facts in an orderly manner. the member himself voted for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the personal injury alleged is not related to his political activity. that is why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ since mr stanishev is in favour of the waiver of his immunity, i support this move.
in writing. ‒ the offence charged against him is clearly not (temporarily) related to his political activity. that is why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev, as this is the only way to ensure that the member's country of origin can be prosecuted in a targeted manner. the member himself voted for the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the offence charged against him is clearly not (temporarily) related to his political activity. that is why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ although the text makes some reasonable suggestions in some passages, i do not agree with some fundamental points. this includes, for example, the call for more funds for cohesion programmes, indirect redistribution at european level, fiscal incentives and looser fiscal rules. for these reasons i cannot support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against this motion for a resolution because i do not consider the guidelines for the 2016 budget to be meaningful on the basis of the overall constitution. the eu budget is an investment budget and is intended to be a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and jobs throughout the union. despite some reasonable approaches, the guidelines as a whole are to be rejected. the redistribution of funds and the fact that eu countries with extremely questionable economic and financial situations are receiving even more eu funds cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 budgetary guidelines - section iii contain some very workable approaches, but also passages that provide more money for cohesion policy, for example. i also find it critical that certain redistribution plans in the guidelines are included. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against this motion for a resolution because i do not consider the guidelines for the 2016 budget to be meaningful on the basis of the overall constitution. i think that this budget, despite some reasonable proposals, should be rejected as such, partly because of the redistribution of funds, but also because more money is going to eu countries whose economic and financial situation is more than questionable.
in writing. ‒ the text describes the problem of fraud with eu funds very clearly and raises fundamental questions concerning the control of the use of eu funds. the report's recommendations are a step in the right direction, leading to greater control and efficiency in the use of eu funds and in the prosecution of fraudsters. but since the report explicitly calls for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, i must abstain, although i support the basic statement of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu's priorities and objectives are to be safeguarded by the protection of the eu's financial interests, in addition to the principle of sound financial management. the demands for the elimination of irregularities and the fight against fraud are welcome. on the other hand, however, this report attempts to claim both the weak intelligence ratio of olaf and a european public prosecutor's office. there are both positive and negative aspects to this report; i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud are worthy of support. on the one hand, it is welcome that irregularities or errors in the proper use of eu funds should be avoided. the report also mentions the weak intelligence capacity of olaf and the attempt to call for a european public prosecutor. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments, because they are not in line with the text.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is part of the european family of nations and therefore, in my view, a positive enrichment. the country's integration into the eu is of enormous importance for the stability of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is part of the european family of nations and therefore, in my view, a positive enrichment. the country's integration into the eu is of enormous importance for the stability of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ the existing problem of macedonia with the albanian minority may become the next hotbed of conflict in the balkans. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the fight against corruption in the country.
in writing. ‒ the existing problem of macedonia with the albanian minority may become the next hotbed of conflict in the balkans. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the fight against corruption in the country.
in writing. ‒ serbia's accession and ultimately eu accession is an opportunity and enrichment for the union, as serbia can also play a bridge and mediator role with russia. a fair and balanced report on serbia's progress towards eu accession, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on serbia. serbia is not only part of europe but also an important partner of the european union. the accession negotiations call on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with that of the eu, to strengthen its cooperation with neighbouring countries and to intensify cooperation with kosovo to crack down on criminal networks. the long-term integration of the country into the eu with the right conditions for accession is not only the right but also the logical path for this country and the eu to follow.
in writing. ‒ serbia is not only part of europe but also an important partner of the european union. the long-term integration of the country into the eu, with the appropriate conditions for accession, is not only the right but also the logical path for this country and the eu to follow. i voted in favour of this proposal because my country, austria, would also benefit greatly from this accession, if the conditions were right.
in writing. ‒ the economic and political situation in kosovo is a disaster. the country is experiencing one of the largest waves of emigration in terms of total population, the government is not promoting economic or political reform and is managing the land as if it were private property. i cannot therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the status of serbs in kosovo must be clarified and the serbs on the ground must be protected. the persecution and destruction of serbian culture in kosovo must be stopped.
in writing. ‒ the status of serbs in kosovo must be clarified and the serbs on the ground must be protected. the persecution and destruction of serbian culture in kosovo must be stopped.
in writing. ‒ the report ignores the fact that the european economy needs incentives to produce more, innovate and create jobs. instead, he wants the state to step in with money and expand the public sector. fiscal consolidation is necessary, but to do so, individual governments will have to accept spending cuts. the report calls for more state intervention rather than private sector incentives, and i must therefore reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination and therefore against the annual growth survey 2015. in my view, the european semester for economic policy coordination is a call for more state and less private responsibility. the aim of fiscal consolidation by the member states is considered necessary, but the european semester does not want to accept spending cuts.
in writing. ‒ the european semester for economic policy coordination is, in my view, the call for more state and less private responsibility. it considers fiscal consolidation by the member states to be necessary, but does not accept spending cuts in return. i therefore decided against this report.
in writing. ‒ while the report makes some good suggestions, such as giving member states more freedom to shape their social policies, it still considers that the public sector should be the main driver to generate economic growth and create jobs. it fails to see that the problem is actually the economic environment, which is over-regulated and offers little incentive for the private sector to expand. the report stresses the need to develop the public sector and to introduce a european minimum wage. i therefore reject the report.
in writing. ‒ regarding the employment and social policy aspects of the 2015 annual growth survey, i voted against the draft resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination. the report does not, on the whole, correspond to my expectations, despite some good suggestions in the report, such as giving member states more freedom in implementing their social policies. the state cannot be the main driver in the fight against unemployment, as the creation of quality jobs, the fight against deflation and the increase in growth potential are not solely dependent on the state.
in writing. ‒ the european semester for economic policy coordination is, in my view, the call for more state and less private responsibility. it considers fiscal consolidation by the member states to be necessary, but does not accept spending cuts in return. i therefore decided against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report makes some good suggestions, such as giving parliamentary responsibility for implementing country-specific recommendations and thus increasing subsidiarity, but it also calls for greater control by brussels over member states and their budgets. that is why i can only reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on internal market governance in the european semester 2015 because i reject the overall focus of brussels' control over member states. i cannot support the approach of political supervision at the highest level and therefore control at eu level.
in writing. ‒ while this report on the governance of the internal market in the context of the 2015 european semester provides some points that could be welcomed, the overall direction of brussels' control over the member states is to be rejected. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a stronger fight against child abuse on the internet. this problem is becoming more and more apparent and, given its transnational nature, requires a concerted and determined approach. i therefore agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fight against child sexual abuse on the internet should be supported; i therefore voted in favour of this motion. children are the most vulnerable group in our societies and therefore need to be protected. the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including in the online environment, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights. this is why we must combat and end the sexual abuse and exploitation of children.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of stricter controls on the internet and i am fighting against the sexual abuse of children on the internet. i am in favour of tighter controls, tougher penalties and prosecution of offenders. our justice system has not been able to cope with the dramatic flood of child pornography on the internet. we must be able to combat child sexual abuse effectively throughout europe. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against child sexual abuse on the internet is a cause for me, which i support with all the means at my disposal. the internet in particular is a frightening platform where child abuse is rampant. that's why i agreed to this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. every murder affects us. but boris nemtsov is a victim of the system that has become more and more fascist in russia in recent months and years. it is a political murder, a murder against freedom of thought, speech, action, against democratic developments, against universal fundamental rights and freedoms. it's the murder of a person who said that the war with ukraine started with putin because he feared a repetition of the maidan in moscow, to demonstrate that a revolution ends in chaos and that people cannot remove state power in this way. i think boris nemtsov would be a worthy winner of the sakharov prize of the european parliament, the european house of commons.
in writing. as we mourn the murder of russian politician boris nemtsov today, we also mourn a driving force in russia's opposition that wanted to make the country more democratic and civilized. he was a link between russia and western european views, and he spoke out clearly against the ukraine conflict. we must now speak with a united european voice against this retreat by russia, against the loss of freedom of expression and the media and against a climate of hatred and intolerance. it is important now to do more than just call for a transparent investigation. the long list of opposition members killed and the recent allegations of torture show that in most cases this is unsuccessful. we must above all try to maintain contact with those who are fighting for democracy, open dialogue, the rule of law and democracy in russia. the country is on its way to isolation, which is bad for it. the eu must clearly reject what is happening in russia, but we must try to remain in dialogue to prevent further drifting and to call for a modern russia based on international cooperation and tolerance.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank my colleague, mr elmar brok, for his comprehensive report. i agree with the main points made in it. my reservation relates to the premise of the report. the eu, it says, has not been able to fulfil its potential because of its internal crisis. to borrow a quote from the epochal "last days of mankind" by karl kraus, let me say: let's stop playing the crisis card. europe is the world's largest economic power, europe is more united than ever - let us think of the ukraine conflict. many things could be better, but let us show more confidence, let us show more optimism! let me back that up with another quote. recently, the authors of the weekly magazine die zeit asked the question: why is it so difficult for the eu to recognise its own successes? other and the authors answer: "in the think tanks and in the offices of the members of parliament, there is a continuous effort to talk about everything big and small, everything beautiful and ugly, and everything juicy and bland". we should put that in our family tree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr panzeri has presented a very ambitious report. it focuses on the content of human rights priorities, thus avoiding the danger of a mere succession of cases which must always remain incomplete and therefore vulnerable from the outset. parliament has a good opportunity to react quickly and precisely to changes with the increasingly important instrument of urgent questions. i therefore expressly welcome the report's recommendation to set up a parliamentary working group to deal systematically with the question of maintaining as accurate a record as possible of human rights activists who are detained or persecuted. this also helps to minimise the risk of double standards in our human rights policy. it is contrary to the principles of european foreign policy to align our sensitivity to human rights violations on political expediency. there are no good and bad, no important and unimportant human rights cases. human rights are a category sui generis. to remember them constantly is an investment in our future. only a world where the rule of law, individual freedom and democracy prevail is a safe world. such a policy must not be a matter of over-teaching, but must strike the right balance between silent diplomacy and public criticism. the institution of the eu special representative, which is being brilliantly fulfilled by stavros lambrinidis, is such a right step and deserves to be further developed.
i have to say, madam president, there were times when you might say, what do i care about conflicts that happen far from my home? this finding, which has always been wrong, is now more unnecessary than ever. the situation in libya is particularly striking. just this weekend, daesh terrorists kidnapped assembly workers in the al-ghanie oil field, including the upper austrian dalibor s. his fate is uncertain. the people in my country are appalled, and so are many people all over europe. to stop the terrorists, it will take the full commitment of all of us. we can only defeat daesh if we take a firm stand against it, both in europe and in the countries where it controls territory. we must therefore do everything we can to restore statehood to libya, and we must not waste time in doing so.
i have to say, madam president, the union now wants to join the arab league in fighting the terrorists of the islamic state. that sounds good. but what does this arab league stand for? skepticism is justified, for over the past 15 years the league has presented a very heterogeneous picture. in 2011, the assad family was toppled, in 2013, qatar emerged as a great friend of the muslim brotherhood, and according to the center for the study of the arab world at the university of mainz, saudi arabia, qatar and the united arab emirates remain key sources of funding for is. similar reports have been received from the washington institute for near east policy. but the visit of the king of jordan to this house gave me a glimmer of hope. he spoke clearly, saying that the basis of a successful fight against isis must be social justice and respect for other religions. but whether that can work with salafi muslims in saudi arabia or elsewhere in the emirates, who are all playing a double game, is quite questionable to me.
i have to say, madam president, on no other issue is there more unity in this house than that daesh is an existential threat to our freedom and must be fought by all means. it is therefore important to find allies, and the arab league, whose states are under much more immediate threat, is probably a very important partner. this memorandum is therefore to be welcomed. but we must also ensure that in the coming months, the words are followed by corresponding actions. we must also not forget to demand that our partners respect democracy and human rights. the swedish foreign minister, margot wallström, would have done the same yesterday at the arab league meeting in cairo. she was not allowed to speak because of saudi intervention. she would have said nothing but that democracy, security and development are linked. it would have been good if their arab colleagues had heard that too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by saying that it is extremely regrettable that, in view of the dramatic increase in anti-semitic incidents in europe, no concrete resolution can be discussed today because our colleagues from the social democrats and the greens have prevented this. i find that very regrettable! consider that the number of anti-semitic incidents doubled in 2014, that jewish europeans fear physical attacks, that jewish events are avoided because visitors don't feel safe, that jews in europe don't report discrimination out of fear, that more and more of these europeans are leaving europe because they see their lives threatened. i call on the european commission to initiate infringement proceedings against those eu member states which have still not accurately implemented the 2008 framework decision. i demand that the eu laws against hate speech and incitement be amended and tightened. because what many imams are saying has to be stopped! i call for a massive increase in dialogue between cultures and religions, and for the commission and the member states to take the offensive and to provide financial resources to suppress both the radicals on the right and the left and, of course, the radical islamists. i therefore call for a concrete eu action plan against anti-semitism and extremism in europe, because only in this way can we protect the european values of freedom and respect.
i have to say, madam president, phobia: that is, almost a morbid fear of islam! i thought the days were over when people who were worried about human rights violations, who were worried about religious intolerance, were called sick. when someone criticizes, even calling them sick, it reminds me of the patterns and mechanisms of nazism and communism. we should not be hypocrites here, we should openly name the problems that exist with islamism in europe. we should also work with moderate muslims and listen to them as partners. i know many committed, tolerant muslims and i admire their courage. some of these intellectuals are threatened with death by their fellow believers through fatwas. we should be worried here, too. we should stand with these brave citizens and speak out loud!
a writer. the commission is not in the middle east, we are witnessing a tragedy of historic proportions. daesh is destroying the very foundations of our civilization. everything that stands in the way of their terrorist arbitrariness must be destroyed: monuments, writings, cultural achievements and, above all, people. people who refuse to obey their orders and people whose only crime is to belong to another religion. this is in stark contrast to what has been common in the region for 2,000 years, where people of different religions live side by side and with each other. christians have lived in the middle east for as long as there have been christians. two weeks ago, more than 200 assyrian christians were kidnapped. their fate is uncertain, the worst is to be feared. we must not tolerate this attempt at extermination under any circumstances!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. despite positive news about the supposed weakening of is, the organization has not lost its danger. it is and remains a murderous gang that terrorizes the middle east, and kidnappings play a central role in it. and once again the most persecuted religious group in the world, the christians, have been victimized, this time up to 400 people who have been snatched from their ancient assyrian homeland, held captive and living in daily fear of death, while their christian brothers in tall tamer continue to offer desperate resistance. we must therefore open our eyes to the fact that christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world and that islamism is the main culprit. it is up to europe to draw political conclusions from this: countries which do not protect their christian minorities, countries which allow or even tolerate persecution, must expect all the consequences! the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus.
a writer. the commission is not we have not been dealing with the situation in south sudan for some time. we have deplored the increasingly uncontrolled situation which is leading to the destruction of state structures and the loss of social relations. we have expressed our hope that the situation will improve. that was last november. none of that happened. the situation has worsened, the number of internally displaced persons has risen to 1.5 million, more than 2.5 million people - almost a quarter of the population - are suffering from hunger. the country is deeply divided, and the conflicts are fought with brutal violence. increasingly, children are being used as soldiers. the future of the country is literally at stake. we must end this cycle of destruction. that is why we must not remain silent and must keep reminding ourselves of these things.
a writer. the commission is not the right to own and use the land of one's ancestors and to pursue the traditional ways of life is a natural human right. i think that is a very important point. it has been violated many times, once in the course of colonization, now as a result of market opening and commoditization of originally public goods. the united nations, in its 1962 resolution on the perpetual sovereignty of natural resources, has linked this to the degeneration of human rights. this is the context in which serengeti national park is now being discussed. private investors have acquired titles that will result in up to 80,000 people of the maasai tribe losing their natural livelihoods. if we are to demand respect for human rights worldwide, then we should not be too lenient in criticizing land grabbing for what it is: a violation of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i condemn any kind of restriction on freedom of expression. however, the circumstances of this case are far from clear and any interference and blame from the european union is inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ i condemn any kind of restriction on freedom of expression. however, the circumstances of this case are far from clear and any interference and blame from the european union is unjustified.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, as i believe it represents a clear breach of the neutrality of my member country austria. i cannot support the report's demands, such as the subordination of all strategic policies to the cfsp/cfsp, the allocation of more resources to defence and the military, the militarisation of the eu and closer cooperation between the eu and nato. the common foreign and security policy may certainly be a cornerstone of the european union, but not at the expense of the foreign and security sovereignty of the member countries.
in writing. ‒ i could not agree with the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area. the protection of human rights and the promotion of democracy worldwide are essential objectives, but the report is far from these objectives in some respects. the arbitrary distribution of funds to any civil society or the promotion of lobbies targeting different sexual orientations cannot be supported. the points on migration and refugees are also to be rejected as not representing a sensible approach to the problem.
in writing. ‒ it is really important that the european parliament express itself on the implementation of the eu annual report on human rights in order to give it a concrete dimension which underlines the centrality of human rights in eu external policies. respect for human rights should be a european priority put in practice inside and outside our borders in full respect of the eu’s commitment to the treaty obligation to mainstream human rights into all eu external policies without exception. the eu strategy should also take into account the situation of disadvantaged groups, which is an aspect that has been highlighted in the report and in particular in the opinion of the gender equality committee.
in writing. ‒ the eu commits itself in the founding treaties to act internationally on the basis of principles such as human rights and minority rights. unfortunately, these are all just words that fail even within the european union. the eu still has a lot of work to do on minorities. unfortunately, this report does not guarantee human rights. first and foremost, human rights must be guaranteed with clear objectives and strategies. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ while the joint fight against is terrorists with the arab league is a good approach, cooperation with the arab league does bring some concerns. social justice and respect for other religions are the cornerstones of a successful fight against isis. whether this cooperation with salafist muslims in the emirates can work, however, seems highly questionable. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been a major source of tension between the two countries.
in writing. while the joint fight against is terrorists with the arab league is a good approach, cooperation with the arab league does bring some concerns. social justice and respect for other religions are the cornerstones of a successful fight against isis. whether this cooperation with salafist muslims in the emirates can work, however, seems highly questionable. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been a major source of tension between the two countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on sustainable sea bass fishing, as the measures to regulate and protect the conservation of biodiversity and the fisheries of this species are welcome.
in writing. ‒ respect for, and promotion and protection of, human rights is an important cornerstone of the european union. respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the eu's priorities for the upcoming 28th session of the unhcr are therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution. it is extremely important to send the right signal and show the eu’s strong commitment to the multilateral human rights system. condemning human rights violations and calling for eu human-rights mainstreaming is the way forward if we want to be a credible international partner, capable of guaranteeing the observance of human rights, which is the cornerstone of every free and democratic society.
in writing. ‒ the report made a number of points which i share. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the other hand, the report also contains many statements which i cannot accept. examples include the significant expansion of the rights of migrants or statements on gender mainstreaming. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ respect for, and promotion and protection of, human rights is an important cornerstone of the european union. respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the eu's priorities for the upcoming 28th session of the unhcr are therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the worsening situation in venezuela is a cause for concern. respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations, is not currently taken for granted in venezuela. the government of venezuela is responsible for upholding the rule of law and international law, and therefore must end the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition, the violations of the rights to freedom of expression and demonstration, and the censorship of the media. however, the information available at present is not sufficient to support the claim. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i was struck by the report's ambiguity: on the one hand, it positively highlighted the country's existing shortcomings, especially in the area of respect for human rights, and on the other hand, it contained a large number of contradictory statements and information. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the worsening situation in venezuela is a cause for concern. respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations, is not currently taken for granted in venezuela. the government of venezuela is responsible for upholding the rule of law and international law, and therefore must end the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition, the violations of the rights to freedom of expression and demonstration, and the censorship of the media. however, the information available at present is not sufficient to support the claim. i therefore abstained from voting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to express our deep sympathy on behalf of austria and my party, the freedom party of austria, for the victims of this tragic air disaster. may all those who are grieving now have the strength to go through these difficult hours. i know today is not the day for the big political debate, but i would like to say one thing to the majority of this house. i think there is a legitimate concern to discuss the very volatile situation in greece here. it is a question of the possible exit of greece from the monetary union, it is a question of our prosperity, and it is a question of purchasing power stability and the question of how europe will develop further. and the majority of this house refuses to allow the european parliament to debate this. i can only say: be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen, that you, the social democrats and the christian democrats, are preventing a debate here! i am not surprised that the turnout in the next european elections, which is already below 15% in some countries, will fall even further because of the political disillusionment which you are deliberately creating here by your behaviour.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to know from mr assis - given the current negotiations on the digital single market - whether he also thinks that we can finally abolish roaming surcharges for european citizens in international roaming. i think it would be very important for all of us that in 2015 the roaming surcharge for our consumers is abolished. many of our citizens, over 140 million citizens, travel every year. are you in favour of abolishing the roaming surcharge this year?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your presence in the gallery. after the luxleaks scandal, commission president juncker, who was himself involved in it as luxembourg's finance minister and prime minister, promised that tax evasion in europe would finally be brought to a halt. the automatic exchange of information, the register, is an important first step. but that's not nearly enough. the public sector needs money right now to invest in education, in greening the economy and the tax system. that is why we greens are quite clear: at european level and also in my home country, austria, we are saying a clear yes to the end of banking secrecy, not only for companies, as the austrian federal government is now proposing, but also for private individuals. it is completely incomprehensible why private individuals are allowed to continue to evade taxes. it is not about the grandmother's savings account, as is often claimed, but about tax fraud, tax avoidance, tax evasion on a large scale. this fraud on the citizens must finally come to an end.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr uspaskich had ample opportunity to comment on his case. the legal affairs committee has been very cautious, very careful in this matter, as in other immunity cases. we have already dealt with this in depth during the last parliamentary term. the whole thing is a procedure which is now before the court of appeal and we have dealt with this very same case again very carefully in the legal affairs committee. the decision is therefore absolutely ripe, and it is now. we have looked at this case for a very long time and very carefully and now it is time to vote on it too. (applause from the centre)
in writing. four years have passed since the overthrow of the dictator zine el-abidine ben ali, and for four years tunisia has been building a democratic country step by step. only a few months have passed since the first free elections, in which a new progressive constitution was established. in the process, however, the armed jihadist movement has also seen a resurgence. the recent terrorist attack on the bardo national museum in tunisia is a clear attack on the young and still weak democracy of the state. we must now give the european union the greatest possible support to tunisia, which is one of the most democratic arab countries. it is now time to speak out firmly against the atrocities and to prevent the spread of terror. a functioning democracy is one of the most effective means against islamist extremism and violence. but we should also start by looking at the background that is giving rise to terrorism: the poor living conditions and lack of prospects for many young tunisians, and the spillover of violence from libya. the tunisian government must now remain strong and prove that the attacks do not lead to greater tension between the western and the democracy-skeptic camps. security and democracy are mutually dependent, and we can only achieve lasting security if we invest in the young generation in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ the application was lodged with the european commission on 4 september 2014. greece submitted an application to receive support from the egf, following the redundancies of 705 workers which occurred during the period from 12.9.2013 to 12.6.2014. the support takes the form of career guidance and career planning assistance, business start-up and entrepreneurship advice, training, continuing and higher education programmes, training grants and income support. i support this aid for the workers made redundant in greece and therefore vote in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the decline in household disposable income due to the increased tax burden, the fall in salaries and the increase in unemployment, and the drastic reduction in lending to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of the greek banks, there were numerous redundancies. the aim is to help these unemployed workers to re-enter the labour market, which is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis has led greek households to significantly shift their spending priorities. many households have had to forgo non-essential daily necessities such as television or newspaper subscriptions. this represents a 60% drop in sales. advertising expenditure in the greek mass media has been cut in half. broadcasters should receive eur 5.04 million in egf assistance as support. i think it is very important to support this and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the decline in household disposable income due to the increased tax burden, the fall in salaries and the increase in unemployment, and the drastic reduction in lending to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of the greek banks, there were numerous redundancies. the aim is to help these unemployed workers to re-enter the labour market, which is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the application was lodged with the european commission on 4 september 2014. greece submitted this application for egf support following the dismissal of 928 employees during the period 12.9.2013 to 12.6.2014. the support takes the form of career guidance and career planning assistance, business start-up and entrepreneurship advice, training, continuing and higher education programmes, training grants and income support. i support this aid for the workers made redundant in greece and therefore vote in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this proposal because workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis need to be supported in their reintegration into the labour market. the decreasing demand for products of this sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) led to a 60% decrease in sales by companies in the period 2009-2013. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the greek authorities submitted the application egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities on 4 september 2014. the application concerns 705 workers who were made redundant in 46 undertakings. these companies were active in the nace rev. division 58 (publishing) industry in the nuts 2 region of attica (el30). the reasons for this were the consequences of the economic crisis. to provide for the prospects of redundancies, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up, with an annual budget of eur 500 million. i am voting for this report because it is a very important support and an important signal.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this proposal because workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis need to be supported in their reintegration into the labour market. the decreasing demand for products of this sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) led to a 60% decrease in sales by companies in the period 2009-2013. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the committee responsible voted unanimously to waive the immunity of mr antónio marinho e pinto, who is accused of defaming former officials of the portuguese bar association. since the alleged act of mr marinho e pinto occurred before his election to the european parliament, the procedure is not intended to hinder his parliamentary activities. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ antónio marinho e pinto is accused of defaming former civil servants in his capacity as president of the portuguese bar association. although the procedure was initiated before he took up his duties in the european parliament, it may affect the parliamentary activities of mr antónio marinho e pinto. on that basis, the request for waiver of immunity was granted.
in writing. ‒ antónio marinho e pinto is accused of defaming former civil servants in his capacity as president of the portuguese bar association. although the procedure was initiated before he took up his duties in the european parliament, it may affect the parliamentary activities of mr antónio marinho e pinto. on that basis, the request for waiver of immunity was granted.
in writing. ‒ the interpretation of the european court of justice is that statements which may be considered excessive, offensive or offensive are no longer covered by parliamentary immunity unless they are directly and manifestly connected with the exercise of a parliamentary office. in terms of both nature and content, mr ivan jakovčić's statement has no direct connection with the exercise of his office as a member of the european parliament. in particular, the facts show that, although the statement in question was made when mr jakovčić was already a member of the european parliament, it relates to a matter dating from a period when he was not yet a member of that institution. that is why i am in favour of the request to waive the immunity of ivan jakovčić.
in writing. ‒ the statement in question by ivan jakovčić refers to a matter which dates back to a time when he was not yet in office. the right to freedom of expression should be guaranteed, but this should not be a license to defame or slander. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the statement in question by ivan jakovčić refers to a matter which dates back to a time when he was not yet in office. the right to freedom of expression should be guaranteed, but this should not be a license to defame or slander. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ ireland submitted the application for egf support following the redundancies of 424 employees at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd. and two supplier companies, as a result of increasing international competition in the aircraft construction and aircraft component repair sector. the measures co-financed by the egf would help 250 employees who had been most affected by redundancies and another 200 young people to find new jobs. the support takes the form of career guidance and career planning assistance, business start-up and entrepreneurship advice, training, continuing and higher education programmes, training grants and income support. i am in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ due to the major shift in the movement of goods and services in the union, a shift in the general practice of aircraft component manufacturing and due to a geographical shift in global aircraft manufacturing, lufthansa technik airmotive ireland (ltai) was closed down. this has led to a number of redundancies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the effects of the economic crisis. the redundancies affect 424 workers lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two suppliers. the main company is active in the nace rev. 2 division 33 (repair and installation of machinery and equipment). the firms concerned are mainly located in the nuts 2 region 4 southern and eastern (ie 02). i welcome this proposal because i think it is important that the eu, especially in times of crisis, sends an important signal by making meaningful investments to combat unemployment, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ due to the major shift in the movement of goods and services in the union, a shift in the general practice of aircraft component manufacturing and due to a geographical shift in global aircraft manufacturing, lufthansa technik airmotive ireland (ltai) was closed down. this has led to a number of redundancies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ after the first request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaskich, it became clear that this was not a politically motivated prosecution. in the absence of suspicion of political persecution and in the absence of credible evidence of the existence of a 'fumus persecutionis', there is no reason to refuse to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich. i therefore gave my consent to this request.
in writing. ‒ after the first request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaskich, it became clear that this was not a politically motivated prosecution. in the absence of suspicion of political persecution and in the absence of credible evidence of the existence of a 'fumus persecutionis', there is no reason to refuse to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich. i therefore gave my consent to this request.
in writing. ‒ it is parliament's practice that the scope of absolute immunity cannot cover all aspects of a judicial procedure. the case law of the european court of justice is not entirely clear on this point. the recommendation of the committee responsible, however, makes clear, in a clear and well-considered manner, why immunity should not be protected in this case. that is why i am in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ gabriele albertini, during his time as mayor, expressed allegedly defamatory views in a written request to the italian minister of justice. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament in the future.
in writing. ‒ gabriele albertini, during his time as mayor, expressed allegedly defamatory views in a written request to the italian minister of justice. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament in the future.
in writing. ‒ the report on macro-financial assistance to ukraine is another example of the complete misuse of the european nomenclature. the fact that a third country is to receive funding of up to eur 1.8 billion is totally unacceptable. the budgetary situation of the member states should be sufficient reason to reject a risky 'investment' such as this. we have already seen that the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the middle east. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukraine should receive €1.8 billion in macrofinancial assistance, according to this report. it is still completely unclear how ukraine will ever repay this money. i also have serious doubts that the money will be used for its intended purpose only to support the currency and not to continue the existing military conflict. i have voted against this report on these grounds.
in writing. ‒ the report on macro-financial assistance to ukraine is another example of the complete misuse of the european nomenclature. the fact that a third country is to receive funding of up to eur 1.8 billion is totally unacceptable. the budgetary situation of the member states should be sufficient reason to reject a risky 'investment' such as this. we have already seen that the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the middle east. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the annual tax report focuses on promoting the abolition of banking secrecy in the eu by june 2015 and on further harmonising tax policies. the commission is also proposing to introduce financial transaction taxes as part of the eu's own resources and a strengthened framework for economic governance. as this report obviously only represents more power for the eu to finally be able to impose taxes and their burden on the states, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report makes it clear that a tax system (if one is to be allowed in the eu at all) should be designed to suit the economic specificities of each member state. the right fiscal emphasis must be placed in order to stabilise or stimulate demand in the long term. in my view, a new tax system makes sense only if precise rules are drawn up and strictly supervised. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the annual tax report focuses on promoting the abolition of banking secrecy in the eu by june 2015 and on further harmonising tax policies. the commission is also proposing to introduce financial transaction taxes as part of the eu's own resources and a strengthened framework for economic governance. as this report obviously only represents more power for the eu to finally be able to impose taxes and their burden on the states, i voted against this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not as a european, but above all as an austrian, i have experienced firsthand how difficult it is and how long it takes for the atrocities of genocide to be recognized in one's own history by members of one's own people and by one's own ancestors, and to be made clear that genocide, genocide, is a crime that must never happen again, and that the designation of genocide is absolutely central to allowing the descendants of those who have experienced this suffering and these traumas to live on and to be recognized. the designation of genocide is what we are doing here with this resolution. i think it is necessary that the european parliament should say to the armenians once again: it was a genocide, we remember it and we condemn it. i am glad that many eu member states and national parliaments have now recognised this genocide. i want the others to do the same. it is equally necessary that turkey should recognize this genocide. yes, there are first steps, also in turkey, especially from civil society. but it's not enough. it is necessary that this recognition should also be given by the official turkish government. i would like to make one further comment. austria-hungary, like germany at the time, was an ally of the ottoman empire. there has been too little historical research to develop this awareness and to make it clear that this must never happen again. never again to be aware that genocide is taking place and to do nothing about it - that is also the european mission of this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we commemorate the first systematic genocide of the 20th century. it began in the midst of the first world war and was to be repeated in the second world war in the extermination of jews, sinti and roma. franz werfel's books were banned by the nazis because he foresaw this. millions of people were systematically humiliated, tortured, killed, exterminated. most people have looked the other way, ignored it, trivialized the crime, hoping that grass will grow over it. it was a false hope. it is therefore good that today the parliament of the peoples of europe remembers these crimes and honours the victims. only by remembering and admitting our faults can we avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, and they are a sign of strength, not weakness.
in writing. on 24 april we will commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. the massacre of many hundreds of thousands of members of the armenian minority in the ottoman empire still weighs heavily on armenian-turkish relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the genocides of the 20th century in bosnia, rwanda and cambodia demonstrate that genocide since 1915 continues to be an unimaginable reality in our world and that preventing such atrocities remains a top priority. we must also look to the future: turkey and armenia must normalize their relations without preconditions and build a sound basis for dialogue, mutual understanding and tolerance. only then can the two nations lay the foundation for a stable, peaceful future. the eu and, above all, the european parliament have made it clear in recent days that turkey, above all, must take the necessary steps and name the crimes that took place. the resolution which is being voted on today in the plenary is intended to be an invitation to both countries to finally embark on a cooperative path and to make lasting peace possible.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
that concludes the vote.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on employment rates for people with disabilities in the eu institutions (2015/2619 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very glad that the commissioner is in this house so often, because it also shows that there is an appreciation of our work. in all these discussions, the term pnr is used in a variety of contexts. we have dealt with this in depth in the resolution on the fight against terrorism. of course, the pnr is an infringement of fundamental rights. interference with fundamental rights is acceptable in the fight against terrorism under certain conditions, but it must be in accordance with the case law, it must be relevant and proportionate. i have the impression that sometimes, even under pressure, agreements are concluded very lightly and quickly, and not so much attention is paid to the quality of these agreements. the result is that these various acts are then, critically, abolished, as we have seen with the retention of data. that is why we decided in this house in november 2014 that we would refer the passenger data agreement with canada to the ecj because we had serious concerns in the area of data protection. i agree with my colleague sippel that it is actually useful to wait and see, and not to take another quick shot. if we consider that this debate is now taking place also from the point of view that we are actually being pressured from outside, then we have a moment of quasi-independence in our own discussions about issues that we have to decide for ourselves. i'm just a little bit worried about the time pressure. what's the difference between july and december? i'm disturbed by the nature of this blackmail. not even the united states threatened us. this is the first time anyone's threatened us. i am also disturbed by the fact - and i am responsible for the urgent questions on human rights violations for my group - that in this catalogue, in this pipeline of countries that are coming to us now, we have all the countries where we have already dealt with human rights violations in this house. i don't know if that's a very good premise. i therefore think it would be sensible to allow ourselves this short time and to decide on a sensible measure.
in writing. ‒ france had applied for egf support following the dismissal of 2,513 employees of mory-ducros sas. the redundancies concern a total of 84 sites in france. the job losses are a consequence of the global financial and economic crisis, which has also affected the road freight transport sector and led to a general decline in production in europe. the total estimated cost of this package of measures is eur 10 million, of which the egf would provide eur 6 million. the aim is to provide redundant employees with vocational guidance and orientation to help them find new jobs. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution for employment and social reasons.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support workers and self-employed persons who have been made redundant or have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. these crises also led to the bankruptcy and closure of mory-ducros. since all the criteria for mobilising this fund are fulfilled, this application should only be supported.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade, such as the closure of a large company. our european companies, which respect the social rights of workers which have been developed and acquired over decades, are lagging behind because of the higher costs that this entails. the importation into the eu of products which have not been produced in accordance with certain minimum social standards must be prohibited as soon as possible. until then, we can only reduce the damage caused by globalisation in the countries concerned. i therefore voted in favour of the release of the funds.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support workers and self-employed persons who have been made redundant or have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. these crises also led to the bankruptcy and closure of mory-ducros. since all the criteria for mobilising this fund are fulfilled, this application should only be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the decision to set up a social protection committee, as i am firmly opposed to the eu's expansion of its competences in the employment, social and socio-economic fields.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants to expand its competences in the fields of employment, social affairs and the social economy. i find this decision unacceptable. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the decision to set up a social protection committee, as i am firmly opposed to the eu's expansion of its competences in the employment, social and socio-economic fields.
in writing. ‒ i also refused to give my consent to this decision to set up an employment committee. i am opposed to the eu's expansion of its powers in the fields of employment, social affairs and the socioeconomy.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants to expand its competences in the fields of employment, social affairs and the social economy. i do not think that this perpetual excess of powers is acceptable. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i also refused to give my consent to this decision to set up an employment committee. i am opposed to the eu's expansion of its powers in the fields of employment, social affairs and the socioeconomy.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give my consent to this request for the amendment of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, as unused cohesion fund appropriations from 2014 are to be used for 2015. these funds were not called up last year for various reasons and i believe that they should not be spent by force in 2015 but should be returned to the member states.
in writing. ‒ the mff regulation for 2014-2020 requires the eu to revise the multiannual financial framework if programmes to be financed from the eu budget are adopted later than planned. the proposal aims to enable the eu to carry forward eur 21,1 billion of unused commitments from 2014 to the following years: eur 16,5 billion to 2015; eur 4,5 billion for the year 2016; eur 0.1 billion compared to 2017. in times of economic crisis such as these, this is a matter of principle. it is hard to see why municipalities, counties and states should save iron, but the eu wants to spend more and more money. what we need is a transfer of eu competences back to the nation states in many areas. the eu's financial needs will then also be significantly reduced. that is why i voted against the amendments.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give my consent to this request for the amendment of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, as unused cohesion fund appropriations from 2014 are to be used for 2015. these funds were not called up last year for various reasons and i believe that they should not be spent by force in 2015 but should be returned to the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1934, a novel by the austrian writer franz werfel, "the forty days of musa dagh", was published in vienna and berlin, in which werfel was the first literary figure in history to describe the genocide of the armenians by the turkish-ottoman empire. but today, 100 years later, the turkish government continues to deny genocide with aggressive rhetoric. prime minister davutoglu has been subjecting the holy father, pope francis, to clear words of open racism and xenophobia. i am particularly concerned, however, that not only the islamic nationalists on the bosphorus deny their history, but that today turkish youth groups in europe, the turkish youth tgb europe, are already sending out a flood of broadcasts denouncing anyone who speaks of genocide as a defamer of turkey. it is worrying and threatening to me to see that third generation immigrants have obviously not yet arrived in democratic europe. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the genocide of the armenians 100 years ago is to be condemned in the strongest terms. in 1915, in the ottoman empire, 1.5 million armenians were systematically killed and 500,000 survivors were driven from their homes. this massacre is a crime against humanity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the genocide of the armenians 100 years ago is to be condemned in the strongest terms. in 1915, in the ottoman empire, 1.5 million armenians were systematically killed and 500,000 survivors were driven from their homes. this massacre is a crime against humanity.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution because the strategies for roma integration are not clear and therefore it is not possible to evaluate these strategies.
in writing. ‒ 100 years ago, 2,897 roma, mostly women, children and elderly people, were murdered in the roma camp at auschwitz-birkenau. in recognition of these atrocities, 2 august is to be dedicated to the memory of the victims of the roma genocide in the second world war and therefore declared european roma holocaust remembrance day. the roma are the largest ethnic minority in europe, with an estimated population of 10 to 12 million, including the 6 million roma in the eu. in my opinion, the international roma day is a nice recognition, but i think that recognition alone is not enough. depending on the season, between 8,000 and 12,000 beggars visit austria each month. these are exclusively "professional beggars" from the gypsy milieu. the majority of criminal organisations in eastern europe are recruited and smuggled into our country - mainly from the sinti and roma ethnic groups. the victims of these criminal groups are often the latter. i think that these elements must also be taken into account. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution because the strategies for roma integration are not clear and therefore it is not possible to evaluate these strategies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to see the introduction of this ecall system for member states as a positive step in itself. it is not something new, as some of my colleagues have said. this system is already in use by many car manufacturers. it's already being used. this system will not prevent accidents either, as we have just heard. it will, however, save valuable time between the time of the accident and the arrival of the emergency services. however, i still have some unresolved problems. the problem i see is that there are manufacturers who already have this system. what does that mean for them? do they have to install two systems, or how will they do that? i also see a problem with the very optimistic timing of the date for the creation of such an emergency question station, october 2017. i think it's an illusion that it can happen so quickly. the most far-reaching problem, however, is certainly that of data protection. there is still considerable need for discussion and enlightenment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr schwab, i would like to know whether the system requirements for the ecall system are sufficiently mature and whether the technical standards in this area are mature enough.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her good work. we can be glad that we are on the one hand making a decision which will really save lives, and that is very important and necessary. we are pleased that parliament has reached a common position, and that the commission's positions have also been improved, and that shows how well the committees in parliament can cooperate with each other, and that should also be said on this occasion. and finally, and lastly, i also believe that the issue of data protection is a very important aspect. we have discussed a great deal about voluntary, involuntary and so on. i think we've found a very good solution that can guarantee the principles of data protection. finally, it is also very important to have a system that is accessible to all, that has a quasi-public character.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. an automatic emergency call system with rapid assistance is certainly an important and very good decision if the help is actually available. i see two major problems here: on the one hand, with regard to the telematics platform that the cars then offer, and on the other hand, with regard to data protection. i'm sure that's a concern that's been taken care of. i doubt it, because this flood of data will certainly attract the lust of car manufacturers, but also of insurers. let's see how it goes. i am also concerned about the problem of fraudulent security. we know very well that there is a lack of coverage in rural areas and that the availability of rescue workers is not the same everywhere. this is a very important matter. because otherwise, as i said, that security is deceptive. we need deadlines that are met. it must also be said that a great deal of work will be needed here to ensure that the density we have in the core of europe - germany, austria and so on - is also maintained throughout europe.
in writing. we are voting on a parliamentary resolution on a new alcohol strategy on wednesday. the important thing is that there should be a clear distinction between the consumption of alcohol and its abuse. eu-wide coordinated solutions to the problem of addiction are certainly desirable. but there must be no demonization of our millennia-old culture of wine and beer production. winemakers and beer brewers preserve and develop culture and tradition and this should remain so in the future! an eu alcohol strategy cannot get lost in a labelling jungle. it is much more important to launch information campaigns and to carry out active education work. i would like to differentiate myself from the socialist proposals which consider labelling as a panacea in the fight against abuse. i am also very much against excessive intervention in the distribution of alcohol. the argument put forward by the youth protection committee must not lead to a sales stop in the inn on the village square, when a primary school is 300 metres away. youth protection works differently member states are clearly responsible for the appropriate protection measures!
i have to say, madam president, i had the opportunity to go to bangladesh with a delegation in february. we have looked at the situation in the factories and talked to the accord alliance and the unions. there is no doubt that progress is being made. things have improved, especially in the area of building safety, in the area of fire safety. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the new agreement. about 2% are organised in trade unions. the unions are rudimentary, they are fragmented. this is a major handicap for development in this country. there is something else that is very worrying besides the lack of freedom of expression. this is the violence in this country that's more or less escalating into a civil war. until that is eliminated, we will have big problems. as the country's largest trading partner, we also have a responsibility to make sure that this civil war does not happen.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 28 april.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1434/98 as regards the landing obligation (com ((2013) 0889 - c7-0465/2013 - 2013/0436 ((cod)) (a8-0060/2014).
in writing. european film faces new challenges in the digital age, especially in economic terms, as digital distribution channels and business models offer great potential for the european film industry. the cross-border availability of european films within and outside the eu is of particular importance. the rapporteur also opposes geoblocking, which can lead to restrictions on the international distribution of audiovisual services. it also criticises the illegal downloading of film content and calls for a binding legal framework and a level playing field for online film marketing and online distribution. new financing methods such as crowdsourcing are also addressed in the report. in general, the digitisation of film art and a digital levy are called for.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our forests and forestry provide very good answers for an additional economic backbone and are at the same time the best guarantors of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation. with over 3.5 million jobs, the forestry sector is the third largest employer in europe, just behind the metal and food industries. over 452 000 forest-based holdings contribute 7% to the eu's economic growth. only 60% of the annual number of young is harvested in europe. wood is therefore an important and above all european resource of great economic importance for rural areas and beyond. the careful care and sustainable management by european forestry companies and over 16 million forest owners ensures that forests fulfil their ecological, economic and social functions. over 50% of europe's forests are privately owned. i have drawn up my report on the basis of these figures. the aim is to further strengthen forests and the forest-based sector in their social, economic and, above all, ecological role, to put the raw material wood as an important resource for europe at the forefront and, above all, to use it sustainably. the report's key points include, for example, better coordination at european level. energy, environmental, climate and economic policies have a major impact on forest management. forests must be better positioned in the various european strategies, while respecting the rights of the member states. i would also like to make a very important request not to create any new bureaucratic obstacles for forest owners and foresters. parliament therefore strongly advocates a clear separation between forest management plans and natura 2000 management plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. it is also important that there are no legal obligations to use cascades, but that there is a real resource efficiency for a sustainable use of wood, and this is also called for. the criteria for sustainable forest management are also important, they must also be a quality label and are constantly targeted and set out for the sector as a whole. it is important that there is no one-size-fits-all criteria catalogue, but that a strong focus is placed on regionality, taking into account, of course, the forest europe criteria, sustainable criteria as the basis for sustainable certification systems. the so-called green jobs, which forestry provides with its raw material wood and which, in particular through sustainable forest management, make a particularly important contribution to environmentally-oriented production and also to education and training in this field, are also of particular importance for sustainable forest management as an economic factor and a source of employment. another important point is research and development. this has also been specifically emphasized. our aim is to support new production possibilities and product ideas, especially in the areas of bioeconomy, environmental protection and climate change. and again, a particularly strong focus on a low-bureaucratic implementation of the forest strategy. it is really about setting real priorities for growth, employment and investment. i also believe that we should upgrade the standing committee on forests and strengthen its mandate, so that the member states can also be more involved. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture. we have worked very well together on this, but the opinions of the committee on the environment and the committee on industry have also contributed greatly to the success of this forestry strategy and to the position of the european parliament. but a special thanks goes to the assistants who have worked very hard and especially to the secretariat of the committee on agriculture. thank you for your cooperation.
the commission has already done so. a compromise may be accepted with the utmost conviction or it may be considered acceptable at the moment. that second formulation is true for me. it's better than what we had before. i am often asked: why are you against biofuels, since they sound so good? yes, many in our ranks were convinced that they were making a good decision. but the truth has shown that in reality there has been a shift, from production for the plate - for human and animal food - to production for the tank. we have had to realise that the climate balance of this so-called bio-sprite - agro-sprite - has not been what we expected, but that it has actually led to a change in land use not only within europe but also in third countries, and that we have put ourselves in danger of having what we decided in good faith - i say once - ten years ago, in the meantime, turn out to be the opposite. the 7% is an acceptable compromise, because we have heard many times today that we must of course also provide planning security and investment security. i just think that the planning certainty of the 7% is already very high. i would have preferred the 6% which was already a compromise. but we must be very careful in general - and this has been said many times today - that we continue, that we have new, advanced production and that we invest above all in research and development on how to guarantee mobility with the least possible burden. this is what europe needs for the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to join my colleagues in welcoming this agreement and the present proposal. i am also afraid that this debate has almost inevitably been conducted more ideologically, and that it has been carried out on the backs of european producers. the domestic entrepreneurs no longer had the security of planning and investment. i also think that's relatively difficult. the result we are about to vote on is acceptable in itself, but it is certainly not sufficient. first steps have been taken in the right direction. i think it is important to continue to promote bioethanol and biodiesel. i am surprised at the one-dimensional discussion. for example, in austria, a by-product of bioethanol production is of great importance, namely a 100% non-genetically modified protein, which is produced and, of course, made available again for animal feed. we were fortunate to be able to prevent -- i'll say now -- iluc factors, because these are highly questionable scientifically. we can discuss this with you if we have any that will ultimately work. i want to join the previous speaker who already said that we need to think about the period after 2020, because we simply need to take the right measures to boost co2 reduction, energy supply and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. fuel from algae or waste products, that's the future of biofuels. we must also put all our efforts and energy into this to make it possible in the future.
i have to say, madam president, the devastating impact of our plastic consumption on the environment - and in particular on the world's oceans - has been known for a long time. i therefore welcome the progress made today towards reducing one of the main causes of this pollution. however, it must be stressed that this can only be a step, albeit in the right direction. taxation and quotas are not really barriers to prevent plastic bags with a decomposition time of up to 500 years from entering our environment. in the long term, we must therefore get rid of these non-reusable plastic bags, regardless of the intermediate steps envisaged, such as a deposit solution or taxes on them - as we say in austria - sackerl. our goal must be to completely switch to biodegradable plastic bags, and beyond that, we need to consider whether we want to address this plastic packaging inflation in pet bottles and plastic products in any way. this means that research must be intensified and consumers and industrial suppliers must be made to take responsibility. but this is mainly in the member states.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this time it is, i believe, simple because we are finally fulfilling a great wish of the europeans. more than 78% of europeans were and are in favour of reducing this flood of nylon sackcloths, or plastic carrier bags, as we call them. in austria, 73% of the population also voted to ban them altogether. we have now taken a first step in this direction, namely to reduce and above all to create awareness, both in the trade and among consumers. because very often it's a very thoughtless take away of a offered cockroach. do you need a sack? yes, please! put it in. i can only encourage each of us to not throw away all these plastic bags for a while, but to collect them and see how quickly a huge mountain of plastic has accumulated in our homes. and then if we think about it, that this mountain usually takes 400 years to decompose -- it's not gone, it's still there, just decomposed -- then for those 15 or 30 minutes of wearing comfort to carry something home, that's a very high price. i am convinced that we need very flexible rules here. we have a very different landscape in europe, in the eu. the consumption of 200 to 400 plastic bags per european on average and per european - that's a wide range. i expect that the pressure from the public will continue to be strong in the future and that in the foreseeable future we will also have a general ban on these plastic bags, these plastic bags.
that is unusual, but i would say that the blue cards are there to put questions. you did not ask any questions, so i will give the floor straight away to ms auken and then mr agnew will have 30 seconds to answer.
i'm not taking blue cards from people who already have one because i have to make sure i'm getting through to the polls in time. i beg your understanding. i have already made ten reports on the following catch-the-eye procedure. i'll just take one per group. catch the eye
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i also wish to congratulate all those who have contributed to this success. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 28 april, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec (17086/1/2014 - c8-0072/2015 - 2013/0224cod)) (rapporteur: josé inácio faria) (a8-0122/2015).
the next speaker is mrs daniela aiuto of the efdd group. a warm welcome to your baby, too!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this vote was a little chaotic. and i think you forgot to vote on something upstairs, too. i just want to put that on record.
in writing. ‒ the eu has exclusive competence in the field of fisheries. the purpose of the present decision is to enable member states to ratify the stcw-f convention in accordance with this competence in the field of recognition of regulated professions exercised by nationals of an eu member state on board fishing vessels. as this is an important step in the field of safety standards on fishing boats, i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f convention) was created to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not subject to any unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ the stcw-f convention aims to ensure that the personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for their duties. the safety of the crew is of the utmost importance here. personnel must have basic knowledge of certain areas and have been on board a ship for a minimum period of time. this means that all staff have the same level of knowledge and can intervene in the event of an incident. in view of the recent incidents, i voted in favour of the international convention on standards for personnel on fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f convention) was created to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not subject to any unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give my consent to the amending budget for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, as i did at the last vote in brussels on 15 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give my consent to the amending budget for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, as i did at the last vote in brussels on 15 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give my consent to the amending budget line for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, as i did at the last vote in brussels on 15 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
mr president, i just want to say on the subject of ecall that i was unable to vote because of the card not working, so i am going to add my vote, otherwise i would have voted against the amendment by the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, although i support the idea of ecall as such. but again, i was not allowed to vote because of a malfunction in my card.
i have tabled the amendment on the on/off button in the ecall system and therefore voted in favour. i am of course in favour of greater road safety, as are all of us, but we must be very careful not to sacrifice more and more of our freedoms with each additional regulation. whether it's in the field of data storage or in general in what is sold to us as counter-terrorism, unfortunately also in the ecall: it's always going in the direction of the glass man. and as a liberal member of parliament, i am strongly opposed to this. the ecall system thus decided on will make it possible to provide rapid assistance to motorists in the event of an accident anywhere in the eu. but like many others, i fear that the system installed in the vehicle is continuously tracking our location, monitoring our driving behavior, and thereby compromising our privacy. if i hear the argument that this is a dormant system, where everything is deleted anyway, the alarm bells ring. a sleeping tiger is a tiger. and we see how our data is being handled almost every day. i do not understand why they do not want to give mature citizens the choice to judge this system themselves with an on/off button.
in writing. ‒ the ecall system is an in-car emergency call system designed to automatically notify emergency services in the event of an accident. the safety aspect is commendable, but it must be borne in mind that all vehicle manufacturers, regardless of their own emergency call systems already installed, will be forced to install the public system as standard in all new cars, and in many aspects the costs and implementation are not clear. there is also a risk of abuse of this system, as the data sets may be disclosed to third parties with the consent of the data subject. the insurance companies can therefore also obtain and misuse this data because of the weaker position of the policyholder. for these reasons, i voted against the decision to introduce the in-vehicle ecall system.
in writing. ‒ in principle, an automatic emergency call system with rapid assistance is an important and very good decision. however, i see a few problems here: on the one hand, the problem with the telematics platform is data protection. i doubt that the flood of data, which is certainly coveted by car manufacturers, is being kept secret. another industry, the insurance industry, is attracted by this. another problem i see is security. the rural areas in particular have a lack of reception coverage. furthermore, not all emergency services can be everywhere at the same time. i have spoken against this recommendation because of the problems mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the ecall system is an in-car emergency call system designed to automatically notify emergency services in the event of an accident. the safety aspect is commendable, but it must be borne in mind that all vehicle manufacturers, regardless of their own emergency call systems already installed, will be forced to install the public system as standard in all new cars, and in many aspects the costs and implementation are not clear. there is also a risk of abuse of this system, as the data sets may be disclosed to third parties with the consent of the data subject. the insurance companies can therefore also obtain and misuse this data because of the weaker position of the policyholder. for these reasons, i voted against the decision to introduce the in-vehicle ecall system.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the compromise agreement on the iluc dossier. the share of renewable energy in europe needs to be further increased. the future of biofuel production is at stake if the operators do not have the planning certainty! the present draft law on the blending of biofuels with conventional fuels is a compromise in the right direction. i would have liked to see a binding bioethanol target to ensure that the protein by-products which are so valuable to agriculture are still safeguarded, but unfortunately this was not feasible. in any case, it is welcome that the unrealistic iluc factors do not have to be applied. it is also important that there is now a commitment to advanced biofuels: without the support for the development of this new generation of fuel from algae and waste, there would be no future for biofuels!
in writing. ‒ we welcome the reduction of the share of biodiesel in fuels from 10% to 6% and 7% respectively, as this will not intensify indirect land use change. this would negate the greenhouse gas emission savings from the use of biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because the transition to advanced biofuels is a promising one. algae or certain types of waste are expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. cereal stocks are enormous, despite the fact that they are used for ethanol production. there is also no theoretical reason to increase the area used for biofuel production. even if the demand for grain and vegetable oil were to increase dramatically, there would still be plenty of unused cropland in europe, africa and south america. there is also a huge potential in food. a billion food items, or food ingredients, never make it to the plate. inefficient harvesting methods have led to raw materials being contaminated by mold or pests or lost in transport. in germany, about 11 million tonnes of food ends up in the garbage, which is about 4 to 5 million hectares of arable land. i have therefore voted in favour of the sensible use of raw materials and therefore also in favour of this directive.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the reduction of the share of biodiesel in fuels from 10% to 6% and 7% respectively, as this will not intensify indirect land use change. this would negate the greenhouse gas emission savings from the use of biofuels.
in writing. ‒ in november last year, eu member states clearly supported new rules to reduce plastic bags, despite opposition from commission vice-president frans timmermans. i welcome this clear commitment to reduce plastic waste, which is still a long way off in some regions of europe. member states are free to choose how they want to achieve these targets either they can stop giving away the bags for free from the end of 2018, or they must reduce consumption by around 80% to 40 bags by 2025. this flexibility is also desirable for other eu regulations! last but not least, the reduction of plastic bags is part of a much-needed package of measures to combat microplastic particles that end up in nature, food and the food chain when bags decompose in the wild. these particles can also enter our bodies and cause disruption in the hormonal system. so we have to get a handle on plastic waste! the present compromise is a good step in that direction and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ as the freedom party of austria, we are committed to comprehensive environmental protection. the council's objective of reducing the high consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags is in itself worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i welcome the reduction in the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. however, i must stress that taxation and quotas are not a real barrier and do not prevent consumers from using the plastic carrier bags. in the long term, we must get rid of non-reusable plastic bags. the aim must be to switch to biodegradable plastic carrier bags. we must invest in research and consumers and industrial suppliers must be made to pay. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ as the freedom party of austria, we are committed to comprehensive environmental protection. the council's objective of reducing the high consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags is in itself worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the reduction of co2 emissions from shipping is very welcome. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the council's position on the monitoring of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the council's position on the monitoring of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is an important step for the accuracy of statistical data, the production of statistics and the verification of data. this will help to prevent irregularities or even intentional manipulation of data and to detect them more quickly. the independence of the statistical offices from political influence is a welcome point. i am voting in favour of this proposal because it will bring great benefits to europe, to the european economy and to the drawing up of recommendations based on statistics.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to amend the regulation on european statistics is an important step not only in maintaining correct statistical data, but also in producing and verifying data and statistics, which could help to identify or avoid any irregularities, as in the case of greece. the independence of the statistical offices from the government is also to be welcomed, in order to avoid falsification or embellishment of certain data. i have voted for this proposal for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i consider the proposal to amend the regulation on european statistics to be an important step towards maintaining accurate statistical data, but also towards the production and verification of data and statistics, which will make it easier to identify any irregularities. the independence of the statistical offices from the government is also to be welcomed, in order to avoid falsification or embellishment of certain data. i voted for the proposal for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to amend the regulation on european statistics is an important step not only in maintaining correct statistical data, but also in producing and verifying data and statistics, which could help to identify or avoid any irregularities, as in the case of greece. the independence of the statistical offices from the government is also to be welcomed, in order to avoid falsification or embellishment of certain data. i have voted for this proposal for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ as this report aims at a more sustainable management and fisheries of the baltic sea, it is necessary to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks, as this will ensure the sustainable management of these stocks and the constant availability of fish and thus a constant livelihood for the fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea is the first new plan under the new common fisheries policy. this plan is intended to provide fishermen with clear objectives and predictability. the common fisheries policy pursues the common objective of long-term economic viability. fisheries and aquaculture must be environmentally and socially sustainable. this is the only way for european citizens to benefit from healthier food and a better quality of life. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks, as this will ensure the sustainable management of these stocks and the constant availability of fish and thus a constant livelihood for the fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the landing obligation means that fishermen must land all unintended catches which are not marketable because of the absence of quotas or because they are below the minimum conservation reference size. i think that the regulation is generally sound, but there are still a few points which need to be revised. that's why i refused my consent.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it does not contain objectives and timetables. the commission has also concluded that the conditions for the implementation of the landing obligation are met, as the landing obligation is not a legal obligation.
in writing. ‒ the landing obligation means that fishermen must land all unintended catches which are not marketable because of the absence of quotas or because they are below the minimum conservation reference size. i think that the regulation is generally sound, but there are still a few points which need to be revised. that's why i refused my consent.
in writing. ‒ the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation aims to strengthen trade and investment, promote trade in transport services and provide the framework for cooperation on economic and financial issues. however, important questions remained open, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ while a european community partnership still points to the important common relations and interests, i would have thought it was time to rethink and adapt our partnership system in general. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation aims to strengthen trade and investment, promote trade in transport services and provide the framework for cooperation on economic and financial issues. however, important questions remained open, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is leading to a unification of the multifaceted european university system and should therefore be rejected. the member states must be free to adapt their university systems to their own traditions and regional and cultural differences. the one-size-fits-all approach glorified in this report does not work, and i reject it.
in writing. ‒ the austrian freedom party continues to oppose the bologna process and calls for (partial) withdrawal. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the so-called 'bologna treaty' has 47 member states. students have the opportunity to participate in an exchange semester and to develop themselves through this process. the aim of this process is to develop and make comparable the structures of the study programmes (bachelor and master). the european commission has also developed a number of new instruments to support the development of the european education system. i am already criticizing this, since there is a justification for individual diplomas. unfortunately, in recent years it has also become clear that the bologna process also supports the exploitation of trainees. undergraduates are treated and in many cases paid as graduates. i expect to be judged and treated fairly in the workplace. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the freedom party of austria continues to oppose the bologna process and calls for (partial) withdrawal. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ european films are one of the continent's most important cultural exports, but the financial resources and popularity of hollywood make it difficult for european films to gain worldwide recognition. the digital era offers new opportunities to support european cinema, which is why i fully support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report on european cinema in the digital age is worth supporting, as film plays an important role in society as a cultural and economic asset, contributing to economic growth, creating new jobs and fostering innovation in europe's digital market. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because european cinema plays an important role in society as a cultural and economic asset. i also believe that the film industry in the member states contributes to economic growth and encourages the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report on european cinema in the digital age is worth supporting, as film plays an important role in society as a cultural and economic asset, contributing to economic growth, creating new jobs and fostering innovation in europe's digital market. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced and focuses on the sustainable economic use of european forests. i can only agree with the proposals as they are being made here.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu forest strategy because it recognises the multifunctional role of forests from the economic, social and environmental viewpoint and thus supports the sector as a very important economic pillar in europe. it also strongly opposes legally binding rules for prioritising the use of wood, mandatory forest management plans and new burdens on forest owners regarding natura 2000. there is a strong focus on better coordination, so that forestry and the forests are given a higher profile among the individual european strategies without jeopardising member statesʼ competences. the weak majority for amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) – amendment 1 on loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services (361 in favour, 316 against and 11 abstentions), amendment 2 (329 in favour, 327 against and 29 abstentions) and amendment 3 on the greenhouse impacts of various uses of forest biomass for energy (340 in favour, 332 against and 14 abstentions) – also show that the report from the committee on agriculture and rural affairs (agri) was strongly supported throughout the plenary and new obstacles for the sector are very much questioned.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because the proposals and improvements it contains are commendable and because forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value, but also guarantee them.
in writing. ‒ the proposals and improvements in the report are commendable: forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation, but also shape the face of my country and need to be promoted. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because the proposals and improvements it contains are commendable and because forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value, but also guarantee them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cooperation of the security authorities is certainly a very important contribution to the fight against crime in this area. but i would like to mention two things which i found to be missing from the commission's agenda here. one of them is that you have to remember that crime is mobile and very flexible today. crossing borders is part of the daily business of criminals and terrorists. i therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to reintroduce border controls to deter criminals. i would like to stress that border controls are also occasionally introduced in the schengen area. and you may have forgotten to mention that a lot of these problems are related to the migration problem, whether it's european jihadists or criminal gangs. we also know that a good part of the trafficking gangs that are taking refugees across the mediterranean, a good part of the funds that they are profiting from there, are being funneled into terrorism in europe. that means that it is an imported problem. please keep that in mind in your deliberations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address three points in as little time as i can. it has already been said: why has the commission not evaluated what has worked and what has not worked so far? i always feel that we are rushing ahead with thousands of new regulations, but to check whether this really does anything, we need to know what has worked and what was good and what was bad. that is a point i would like to make. the second point is that i refuse and do not want such things to be introduced into europe through the back door. if we are talking about a counter-terrorism centre or a reporting agency for internet content - whatever that is - it has to go to the european parliament before something like that happens. it is not possible for the commission to put things like this in place by means of any legislation that passes through our hands. thirdly, how should i understand the reference in the paper to taking account of the needs of law enforcement in the development of new technologies? can i imagine that if i download a candycrush app, that app has a backdoor that then forwards all my data to law enforcement? no, i certainly do not want that, ladies and gentlemen. we have to discuss that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the security spokesman for our austrian delegation, i would like to thank the commission, the vice-president and the commissioner for the excellent security agenda. i can see that the three main areas of the action radius have been defined very precisely here. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism, and the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism. there is no way that cybercrime can go unanswered. i also thank you for not forgetting that in all your actions you must respect the fundamental rights of all citizens and that security and freedom are two equal pillars on which our building is built. i would like to express a certain dissatisfaction with the comments on data storage. it may be useful to go further here, considering that in the financial and banking sector there is longer storage, very precise and orderly. and we want the internet not to be a lawless space. we want this to be regulated in a european manner and in accordance with fundamental rights. it's a basic right! and i don't want to hear any excuses for constitutional lawyers locking themselves up overnight and solving this. i would also like to see the fight against hate speech not only online, but also offline. i think that the existing legislation needs to be reviewed.
i have to say, madam president, the need to establish a european public prosecutor's office has been discussed for over a decade. i would remind the council, which is not here, but especially all those who have doubts, of the famous case of 'greek maize'. the court has recognised that the member states are obliged to protect european interests in a manner equivalent to the protection of national interests. so european interests must be protected as well as national interests. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is therefore a logical extension of this principle. i am therefore fully behind the objective of protecting the financial interests of the european union and fighting corruption, and i think that this is only logical for all the members of this house. i would also like to remind those who have doubts, whom i have just spotted in this context, of the legal basis - the treaty of lisbon - which places particular emphasis on the fight against serious financial and economic crime, and i think that mrs macovei has done valuable work in this context.
i have to say, madam president, i'm afraid this is not the last time we'll have to deal with this kind of thing here and bring light into the darkness. intelligence agencies operate in the dark, and the dark scares a lot of people. we as a parliament are in favour of ensuring a europe of freedom, security and justice. it is precisely one of the strengths of our rule of law that the powers of the police and intelligence services are clearly defined. any interference with fundamental rights must be justified in the individual case and must not go beyond what is necessary, and in particular it must not be systematic. so what do we need? we need parliamentary control. that's a good thing we're doing here. we need intensive investigations throughout europe, in all the member states where this is happening. secondly, we need to finally complete the data protection reform it is overdue. thirdly, we need to achieve more network and it security in europe finally a european infrastructure and a legal framework for a european cloud. fourth, we need to protect whistleblowers, people like edward snowden who have exposed all of this stuff. and fifth, we need an anti-espionage agreement. bilateral agreements are obviously worthless. all eu member states must commit themselves to not conducting economic espionage against each other. and sixthly, we must finally have the courage to review the international agreements we have concluded. swift and safe harbour agreements must be put to the test. we have made clear decisions here. it is clearly the commission's turn to draw the consequences of our decisions. i think the mark of a free society is that it is willing to unambiguously expose violations of fundamental rights, rather than just accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reform and regulation of money market funds has been discussed in this house during the last parliamentary term. the rapporteur has certainly succeeded in reaching a compromise which is acceptable to large sections of the house and to the industry concerned. what were the main points of the report? these are the systemic risks - we've already touched on this today - the close interconnection of banks, insurance companies and the real economy with money market funds and the risk of contagion, the liquidity component, credit ratings, portfolio structure and transparency. because one thing is clear: it is only through strict banking regulation and low interest rates that systemic risks are increasingly shifted to shadow banks. that's why we need to regulate, and this house started with money market funds. the market structure was mentioned. i'm here with commissioner hill. different investors need different funds and different structures. the report is diverse, and that is good. the stress tests are planned quarterly, which is indeed indicative. you remember: the deputy governor of the federal reserve, fisher, recently spoke about the importance of stress testing. this is important for the united states, this is important for europe. that is why these funds create transparency, liquidity and stability. the report is positive.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that this debate is not only important for the big international players. of course, they very often have their own banking systems and often find it much easier to obtain financing because their conditions are quite different from those of small and mediumsized enterprises. i think it's particularly important for us to remember that small and medium-sized enterprises need venture capital to grow. and the key question is: how can we help small and medium-sized enterprises to get venture capital, to be able to take on liabilities? how do we deal with guarantees given by family, friends? how can we organize this in tax terms? how can we support growth particularly among those who have good products and services that can be sold worldwide? the funds play a very special role in this. the key question is, how can we format them to be more supportive in the future?
in writing. the present compromises create european rules in a financial area which has not been regulated so far. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. we all know that the financial industry has been looking for loopholes and loopholes to move their financial operations into the unregulated world. the volume of shadow banking has more than doubled since the crisis! this regulation closes another regulatory gap. the only caveat is that the limitation clause could not be extended to all mmfs. a review by the commission after four years would have been desirable for all the proposed forms of money market funds!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that development aid, as it is largely financed and instrumentalised by the european development fund, needs to be completely re-thinked. the error rates reported by the court are certainly far too high in most areas. when we spend money in the poorest regions of the world to make life better for people, local governments have to play their part and meet certain performance indicators. if this does not happen, the payment of appropriations must also be suspended. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the same problem arises for multiannual payment commitments, which can only be settled after the entire period. clear interim and success criteria must be defined, adhered to and monitored. in addition, there is a clear need for more flexibility in the european development fund to be able to respond quickly and sustainably to humanitarian disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of the island of lampedusa, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the aid is not used to further the cause of the refugees. it's not enough to just throw money around and hope for the best. the aim is to support specific projects that can provide local people with sustainable self-help.
the commission has already done so. we have shed a lot of light today on what may have gone wrong in the 2013 budget. a 4% error rate is not something to be happy about. we must draw from this, for the future: a control report - and i thank the court of auditors for the excellent cooperation - shows errors in the past. but it also shows a call for action for the future. i would therefore like to look at the 96% which have gone well, where the programmes have met expectations, where the member states and the agencies have met the expectations placed in them and have fulfilled their statutory mandate and also the programme mandates. we also need to look at what went well and learn from it. where mistakes have been made, we can really also derive what we can do better in the future. we have heard today: cutting red tape. we need bureaucracy, access to european funds which are not inherently flawed. i would ask you to continue to work in this direction, to continue to think. we need control, but above all we need orders for the future, which we derive from these controls.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not wish to speak only on my own behalf today. i am speaking on behalf of many people who have sent me letters, once again in connection with amendment no 27 which has been raised today, concerning aid to the saharawi refugees in the tindouf camp. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a reply to the question put by mr van miert. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr deprez. we've spent many hours negotiating hard and fair. i think the result is quite visible, because it is about seeing how we can best perform our work during this period. we have the mandate from the heads of state or government that the overall budget of the european union will be cut by 4% over the next seven years and that 1% of posts will be saved each year. it is therefore clear that 6% of the total budget of the european union is allocated to administration. of this 6%, parliament will use a maximum of 20%. we've been under that this year. i would like to thank the rapporteur because, in view of the general situation, extreme austerity is appropriate. i also welcome the fact that the various groups have different opinions on the adjustment of the various resources, especially the secretariat resources. we believe that members should decide individually who needs fewer staff, who needs fewer trainees, who needs fewer services. it's good for the taxpayers. we are very happy if the minimum is reached and the resources are used efficiently. on the other hand, there are of course a few members in the house who have a tremendous workload and who need very efficient staff in these areas. it is important that the ceilings can be used accordingly. it's also about the fact that you can only get the house's services on demand. i believe that privacy is also a very important principle in the house, alongside transparency. we must keep both principles in balance. finally, the member who is not a member of parliament must also take responsibility for his own expenditure and not leave it to the administration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to those articles which guarantee respect for the fundamental values of the european union. you were right to say that today we are concerned about the extent to which it is possible to save as many people as possible. elsewhere, people seem to be concerned about the opposite. if the reports in the international media, in the european media, are correct, mr orbán is considering reintroducing the death penalty in hungary. i think that is completely against european law, and it would be barbaric if it were true. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, i ask you to investigate this and, if necessary, to draw the necessary conclusions. this is not acceptable in europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. two things to consider. first, everyone who needs protection and help must be given it. secondly, every person in distress at sea must also be helped. the question we have to discuss politically here is rather where and how we are going to help these people. it makes little sense to me that people are travelling 5,000 km, 10,000 km, halfway around the globe, knocking on the door of europe. there have been proposals for a long time that are much more effective and better. i remind you of 2005. the german interior minister, schily, a social democrat, proposes that a care agreement be established with the north african states. last year, de maizière, the german federal minister of the interior, proposed the establishment of a first reception centre with north african states. i think that is precisely the reason for the european union's inaction. i would like to ask you to negotiate with countries such as morocco, egypt and tunisia so that a refugee reception centre is set up there in accordance with unhcr standards, in order to keep people in the region as much as possible and not expose them to the dangerous journey across the mediterranean, because you are also making yourself responsible for further deaths, which must not happen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think there are three things that need to be spoken about very clearly. first, to save. when people's lives are in danger, you have to do everything you can to save them. there are no excuses. secondly, fairness in the distribution of resources. yes, the odds. perhaps quotas are the solution we need to ensure that refugees are distributed fairly in europe in the future. thirdly, legal immigration. there must be legal immigration. these three measures can provide some relief. but all this will not help unless there are additional measures to stop people from having to flee. a sensible foreign policy, a sensible foreign trade policy, an economic policy which does not allow our corporations to mine africa's resources wherever and whenever they want. these are the things that have to happen. the rhetoric of concern may help in the beginning, but not in the long run. just a small remark to mr kirkhope: please do not send mr farage to australia. he tends to be one of these guys who mixes everything up: he might end up in austria and we don't really want him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! yesterday, a memorial service was held outside this house in memory of the thousands of women, men and children who have lost their lives in recent years while trying to find a safe haven in this europe. a list of tens of meters with the names of thousands of people. i want all of you in this house who are still not in favor of having a robust sea rescue program, who are still not in favor of distributing refugees fairly and opening our doors to refugees from war zones, and who are still not resisting -- in the chancelleries of these member states, in the ministries of the interior of these member states -- to look at this list and make it clear: we need a robust sea rescue program so that refugees do not end up brutally drowning. we need a fair distribution key, and we also need fair trade relations and more development cooperation. because otherwise, these people will continue to drown. we must not allow this to happen again as the european union!
in writing. what is happening in the mediterranean these days is a disgrace to politics and a disgrace to europe. i am appalled by the disasters which are taking place in the mediterranean these days and by the slow political response to them. the eu must act quickly to save lives. she's in charge here. the successful mare nostrum aid operation, for example, cost only 22 cents per eu citizen, and there is an urgent need for more support and implementation of such measures. the establishment of so-called reception centres in north africa is not, however, in any way a viable and useful idea: in crisis countries like libya, such facilities would be difficult to protect and would not change the problem of traffickers. we must tackle the problem at its root. i have repeatedly stressed that the eu must be more involved in crisis areas. europe is historically complicit in today's conflicts through its arbitrary demarcation of borders in the middle east and its years of colonial rule in africa. we must therefore do everything we can to bring an end to the war in syria and do everything we can to bring an end to the crises and conflicts on the african continent. the eu must start today to do its part to ensure that the people of the countries affected can have a hope for a bright future tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask that the votes for the next week's partsession in strasbourg be organised in such a way that we have as much equity as possible in the distribution of dossiers. because it is unacceptable that we have to vote for two hours today and annoy our visitors. every one of us, or many of us, have lunch dates. we cannot block the whole lunch hour with the vote. we have always had the rule that the vote is taken no later than 1:30 p.m. i would also like to suggest that we start at 11.30 on thursday so that everyone can vote properly.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 contains some calls which i think are worth supporting. on the one hand, it is welcome that the commission is being asked to propose tougher legislation to combat corruption and to list the error rates of individual countries. on the other hand, the report attempts to portray the galileo satellite system as too expensive, despite the advanced stage and importance of a european system of its own. the text could have been worded much more clearly, and in view of the facts already mentioned, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 certainly contains some sensible demands. on the one hand, i welcome the fact that the error rates are finally being listed for each country. on the other hand, the report criticizes the galileo satellite system as being too expensive, although at the present time it would be totally unprofitable financially and economically to abandon it and a separate european system makes sense. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 contains some calls which i think are worth supporting. on the one hand, it is welcome that the commission is being asked to propose tougher legislation to combat corruption and to list the error rates of individual countries. on the other hand, the report attempts to portray the galileo satellite system as too expensive, despite the advanced stage and importance of a european system of its own. the text could have been worded much more clearly, and in view of the facts already mentioned, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's agreement to increase the first advance from the eu's youth employment initiative is welcome. the commission will also be providing eur 1 billion in advance for the development of targeted youth vocational training to combat the enormously high level of youth unemployment in many regions of europe in an effective and sustainable way. it is important that eu funding is used to build structures that are sustainable for the future. the key is to act quickly now and to use this money to launch key projects of the european youth initiative.
in writing. ‒ the commission has decided to release the €1 billion, which does not come from new funds but from an employment initiative for young people, to finance new projects. these projects are designed to provide young people with the opportunity to work, to do an internship or to undergo training. in view of the fact that youth unemployment is over 25%, this seems to be an economic benefit, but it must be borne in mind that it does not in any way eliminate the structural problems in the countries and is therefore a pure placebo effect. that is why i abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the key priorities of the employment initiative is to provide new impetus for jobs, growth and investment. youth unemployment is a particularly difficult problem in certain regions of the european union. the promotion of young people must be a top priority. the provision of financial resources is intended to support young people in their education or vocational training. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry. effective measures must be implemented as soon as possible. the employment initiative has the right aim, but i do not have an effective strategy to pursue it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is a right and long overdue step to pay out the youth guarantee funds more quickly. this step was taken under pressure from us social democrats. the eu commission also has to ensure that the funds are used effectively. at the same time, member states must increase their efforts to actually collect the funds and use them in a meaningful way for projects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is hoping that the council will take a decision on this matter in the near future. the long-term consequences are serious: for the young people themselves, who see no prospects, but also for our social systems and our society as a whole. i have, of course, voted in favour of prefinancing the youth employment initiative. the problem is that there are still far too few funds available. instead of the six billion currently estimated, we actually need some 21 billion euros to implement the european youth guarantee (in the austrian model) effectively - in the eurozone alone! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. ‒ the commission has decided to release the €1 billion, which does not come from new funds but from an employment initiative for young people, to finance new projects. these projects are designed to provide young people with the opportunity to work, to do an internship or to undergo training. in view of the fact that youth unemployment is over 25%, this seems to be an economic benefit, but it must be borne in mind that it does not in any way eliminate the structural problems in the countries and is therefore a pure placebo effect. that is why i abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the repeal of the regulation on the common system of importation of certain textile products originating in third countries, since this report is a correction of technical problems of import regulations from third countries and it is precisely the import of products from these countries that needs to be regulated in technical terms.
in writing. ‒ the only countries previously affected by the regulation are now part of the wto or in special contractual relations with the eu. that is why the regulation was obsolete and i voted to abolish it.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the repeal of the regulation on the common system of importation of certain textile products originating in third countries, since this report is a correction of technical problems of import regulations from third countries and it is precisely the import of products from these countries that needs to be regulated in technical terms.
in writing. the proposal for a codification replaces regulation (eec) no 1692/73 adopted by the european council on 25 june 1973. the content is codified and not altered. the request is therefore to be approved.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the safeguard measures have been recast or codified without any substantive changes. i was in favour of the measures and therefore agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification replaces regulation (ec) no 1616/2006, which was adopted by the european council on 23 october 2006. the content is codified and not altered. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the draft for the application of a stabilisation and association agreement with albania is a mere codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i am very sceptical about the gradual association of albania and therefore had to abstain, although i am well aware of certain positive effects for albanian society.
in writing. ‒ the draft for the application of a stabilisation and association agreement with albania is a mere codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification replaces regulation (ec) no 594/2008 adopted by the european council on 16 june 2008. the content is codified and not altered. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the draft for the application of a stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina is a pure codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i have similar concerns about the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and commercial matters with bosnia and herzegovina as i had about the vote on the agreement with albania. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the draft for the application of a stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina is a pure codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification replaces regulation (ec) no 153/2002 adopted by the european council on 21 january 2002. the content is codified and not altered. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the draft implementing act for a stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a mere codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i have similar concerns about the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as i had about the vote on the agreement with albania. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the draft implementing act for a stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a mere codification without any change in content. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification replaces regulation (ec) no 994/98 adopted by the european council on 7 may 1998. the content is codified and not altered. the request is therefore to be approved.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the application of the above articles to certain types of horizontal aid has not been fully regulated. i support the now correct codification for reasons of legal clarity and predictability.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a codification replaces regulation (ec) no 659/1999 adopted by the european council on 22 march 1999. the content is codified and not altered. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the eu's legislative practice must also be governed by the principle of clarity and predictability. where this has not been the case, it must be improved. this was the case here. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ since this is a mere codification without any change in the content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution because it calls for more transparency and control. the commission is showing serious shortcomings in this area.
in writing. ‒ the court's special reports provide interesting insights into areas where the commission needs to act urgently. however, it should have been formulated much more forcefully. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights some good practices in the field of development aid. however, the focus of the text was almost exclusively on the call for more financial support in the area of development aid. no constructive and project-oriented restructuring measures in the field of development cooperation were demonstrated. that is why i shall refrain from making any comment on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. it contains some good ideas, but in the end it calls for more development aid, which i think is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the report focused on the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. it contains some good ideas, but in the end it calls for more development aid, a question i do not want to answer in general terms. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. it contains some good ideas, but in the end it calls for more development aid, which i think is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because the improvement proposals it contains on various savings options are commendable. the resolution's proposal to limit itself to a single seat of parliament, to call for savings on business travel, such as the information desk, and to abolish the provision of water in small plastic bottles, and to replace them with water or drinking fountains, is only to be supported. the commission has also proposed that the general cost reimbursement be made transparent.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the parliament's discharge. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. the demand for the single seat, savings on business travel and the permanent abolition of the provision of water in small plastic bottles and the replacement of water or drinking fountains is only to be supported. i also support the call for greater transparency in the general cost allocation.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because the improvement proposals it contains on various savings options are commendable. the resolution's proposal to limit itself to a single seat of parliament, to call for savings on business travel, such as the information desk, and to abolish the provision of water in small plastic bottles, and to replace them with water or drinking fountains, is only to be supported. the commission has also proposed that the general cost reimbursement be made transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this critical resolution, which shows the scope for savings, because it calls for transparency.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because it provides a good starting point for the council and the european council to identify potential savings and to make the mistakes of the past transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this critical resolution, which shows the scope for savings, because it calls for transparency.
in writing. ‒ the report on the budget of the european external action service (eeas) did not identify any shortcomings in the management of the budget, so i can only agree with this request.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because of the critical attitude towards recruitment procedures as well as internal payment processes.
in writing. ‒ the resolution clearly identifies the problems in the area of internal payment practices as well as in recruitment of applicants and personnel policy. i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because of the critical attitude towards recruitment procedures as well as internal payment processes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because it not only addresses the problems but also the benefits of the court of justice for eu citizens and employees.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the discharge to the european court of justice, because although i thought it contained some interesting ideas, it was also too uncritical about the waste that had been made and the potential for savings.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because it not only addresses the problems but also the benefits of the court of justice for eu citizens and employees.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors, which monitors the budgets of the eu agencies and institutions and is thus the watchdog on compliance with budgetary directives, should remain well equipped to continue its work. the european court of auditors is making a good and targeted use of its criticism in all its areas, so i can only agree to a discharge.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution is very critical of the importance of the court of auditors, which controls the budgets of the eu agencies and institutions and thus also monitors compliance with budgetary directives, i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the request because the resolution correctly recognises the importance of the court of auditors, which controls the budgets of the eu agencies and institutions and thus also monitors compliance with budgetary directives, and also provides a sufficiently detailed critique of the budgetary practice of the past.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution is very critical of the importance of the court of auditors, which controls the budgets of the eu agencies and institutions and thus also monitors compliance with budgetary directives, i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ due to the financial situation and an increase in expenditure of around eur 2 billion compared to 2012 and an increasingly inefficient administration, i will not agree to the discharge. i can only support the motion for a resolution, however, because it puts the right emphasis on efficiency, the use of resources, transparency and even waste in connection with the organization of large events.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution is very critical of the lack of efficiency, appropriateness, transparency and waste in the organisation of large-scale events, i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ the organisation of major events organised by the committee was the focus of the report's criticism. it also provided further starting points for future savings potential and detailed criticism of other financial failures during the period under review. so i agreed with him.
in writing. ‒ as this resolution is very critical of the lack of efficiency, appropriateness, transparency and waste in the organisation of large-scale events, i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it gives a positive picture of the waste of money in the committee of the regions, but does not highlight the shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i refused to give the committee a discharge and did not give my assent to the resolution, since it would put the committee of the regions' money-laundering in a more positive light than it would highlight actual shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it gives a positive picture of the waste of money in the committee of the regions, but does not highlight the shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman's remit and activities are increasingly focused on providing the union's citizens with the most efficient and result-oriented assistance possible. in his role as ombudsman, it is justified for the ombudsman to have sufficient resources to represent the interests of citizens in the best possible way. however, the application also clearly identifies areas where the ombudsman's office needs to catch up and where improvements are worthwhile. the criticism is due to the ombudsman's actual behaviour and calls for targeted, fact-oriented improvements, which is why i refrain from the discharge but approve the request.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the general budget of the eu european ombudsman critically identifies areas of the ombudsman's office where there is a need to catch up. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the resolution as it clearly identifies areas where the ombudsman's office needs to catch up and where there is room for improvement. the criticism also calls for targeted, case-oriented improvements.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the general budget of the eu european ombudsman critically identifies areas of the ombudsman's office where there is a need to catch up. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ data protection is now a very complex issue that cannot be dealt with efficiently and effectively at national level, and one that is becoming increasingly important for citizens at european level. the criticism of behaviour in the area of financial affairs is, however, justified and relevant. i shall abstain from the discharge, the motion is worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ since the criticism of the resolution on financial behaviour is not only justified but also relevant, i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ although i abstained from the discharge, i did agree to the related resolution as it contains relevant and constructive criticism and is therefore worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ since the criticism of the resolution on financial behaviour is not only justified but also relevant, i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ the requirement that agencies focus on the optimal use of resources and demonstrate efficiency in their activities is justified. i also think it is sensible to call for the merger of agencies with similar activities and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ given the critical attitude of this resolution towards agencies and the call for more efficiency in their activities, i gave my consent.
in writing. although i refrained from the discharge, i did agree with the resolution because it is very tough on the agencies - a view i strongly share. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. ‒ given the critical attitude of this resolution towards agencies and the call for more efficiency in their activities, i gave my consent.
in writing. ‒ a discharge for the energy regulator is not justified. the accounts are not very good and the rate of utilization of payment appropriations is 55%, well below the target of 70%. the motion for a resolution clearly points out the problems facing acer in terms of financing. the criticism is therefore justified and i therefore approve it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution clearly highlights the problems facing the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in its financial management. that is why i support this motion and have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i refused to agree to the discharge but nevertheless agreed to the resolution: this is because the motion for a resolution clearly points out the problems acer is having in its financial management.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution clearly highlights the problems facing the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in its financial management. that is why i support this motion and have agreed to it.
in writing. - i cannot agree to a discharge. many problems in budgetary and financial management have not improved. the resolution addresses this problem very precisely, which is why i shall support it.
in writing. ‒ since the criticism of the resolution on the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is not only justified but also relevant, i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant the discharge to the gerek, while i approved the resolution. the resolution points to problems which have not been resolved during the period under review, such as a compliance rate of less than 90%, high cancellation rates, etc.
in writing. ‒ since the criticism of the resolution on the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is not only justified but also relevant, i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on the discharge, both on the motion for a resolution and on the translation centre's budget.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, as the demands made in this motion are not clear.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i consider the agency to be one of the few that actually makes sense; i have nevertheless abstained both in the discharge itself and in the vote on the resolution, as some of the remarks were not very clear and meaningful to me.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, as the demands made in this motion are not clear.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree to the discharge in this case, as the field of vocational training is a national matter. the report does, however, provide some measures for savings at civil servant level. that is why i can accept this motion.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this motion for a resolution because it points to savings that could be achieved, particularly at senior civil servant level.
in writing. ‒ the agency as such is clearly to be rejected, since vocational training is a national matter. i therefore refused the agency discharge. i have given my consent to the resolution because of its detailed criticism of the substance of the practice of the past.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this motion for a resolution because it points to savings that could be achieved, particularly at senior civil servant level.
in writing. ‒ due to the high level of commitments and the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures, i cannot agree to a discharge. i shall abstain on the resolution because two reports by the court of auditors are still pending.
in writing. ‒ since neither the high level of commitments nor the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures is condemned, and since two reports by the court of auditors are either still in progress or not yet completed, i abstained from voting on this request.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant the agency discharge because, although the networking of the police services of the member states is useful in the fight against organised crime, this agency is also, in the end, only a body for further alignment of national institutions and national competences.
in writing. ‒ since neither the high level of commitments nor the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures is condemned, and since two reports by the court of auditors are either still in progress or not yet completed, i abstained from voting on this request.
in writing. ‒ aviation safety is important, but i think the agency is overstepping its bounds in the various administrative tasks. it is also involved in conflicts of interest. i cannot agree to the discharge either because of the lack of transparency in the documentation of the transfers and the high rate of transfers. i agree with the resolution which clearly sets out this problem.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this request because of the demand for more transparency in the documentation of the transfer flows.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to grant discharge to the agency because it exceeds its powers in many areas; the negative aspect of this was that it involved interference in cases of conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this request because of the demand for more transparency in the documentation of the transfer flows.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to the discharge of the european asylum support office (easo) and i welcome the improvement in its financial resources compared to 2012. but i think it's more important to look to the future. the easo needs a solid financial base, because it will hopefully play an important role in the necessary common eu asylum policy. the processing of asylum questions and applications needs to be fast, and the distribution of refugees among eu member states also needs professional authorities, and i see easo as such.
in writing. - i cannot agree to the discharge. there are too high costs, too much demand for a 13% increase, and the rewards for expenses and staff are often not traceable. the resolution mentions this problem only incidentally, which is why i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report does not condemn the overestimated costs and the untraceable compensation for expenses and staff. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to grant discharge to this agency because it is the product of a completely wrong and flawed asylum policy and raises important issues of substance, such as the constant increase in costs in recent years.
in writing. ‒ the report does not condemn the overestimated costs and the untraceable compensation for expenses and staff. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree to a discharge here, because the commitments for it services and the like are disproportionately high. i agree with the resolution, which mentions both problems in the handling of the budget and positive developments such as the halving of the commitment carried over.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because of the criticism of the commitment to it services.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant the agency discharge because i consider it to be another example of the limitation of member states' competences, as is shown, among other things, by the eba's right of recourse against member states when they infringe their own national law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because of the criticism of the commitment to it services.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with the discharge of this agency because of the contradictory financial behaviour, but i agree with the resolution: it clearly shows that administrative expenditure is too high and that procurement management is inconsistent. i am therefore voting in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in view of the revelation of excessive administrative data and the explicit mention of the agency's contradictory information on administrative matters in various procurement procedures, i have agreed to this resolution
in writing. ‒ the discharge of an agency must satisfy both formal and substantive requirements. in this case, however, the discharge fails because i cannot support the budgetary practice of the past as a result of constant capital increases. i have always been in favour of reducing the number of agencies, as well as of a much more restrictive spending policy on the part of the agencies themselves. i therefore refused to give my consent.
in writing. ‒ in view of the revelation of excessive administrative data and the explicit mention of the agency's contradictory information on administrative matters in various procurement procedures, i have agreed to this resolution
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree to the discharge, as this agency is financed mainly by fees it imposes on industries and member states, which does not seem to be enough yet, as the commission still has to make support payments. the technical, scientific and administrative evaluation of the registration and authorisation of chemicals is an important task, but it does not justify the high cost factor. the resolution clearly sets out the financial aspects, which is why i can support it.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this motion for a resolution because it condemns the commission's support payments to the european chemicals agency and the agency's revenue sources, which are derived from fees paid by industry.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this motion for a resolution because it condemns the commission's support payments to the european chemicals agency and the agency's revenue sources, which are derived from fees paid by industry.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make austerity a key policy maxim. i am sorry to say that i do not find this in the discharge report. i do not think anyone can be persuaded to increase expenditure for several years in a row without any visible improvement in the results. that's why i denied the agency permission.
in writing. ‒ the environment agency plays an important role in reporting on the state of the environment and the state of environmental protection, but it does not take into account regional aspects. there should be no generalization and the agency should better distinguish itself from lobbying influences. i cannot agree to a discharge because of the travel budget, which almost exceeded the overall budget. the resolution that clearly states this inappropriateness, but yes.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because both overpriced business travel and operating expenditure are strongly criticised.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to discharge the agency as it makes a visible contribution to environmental protection in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this resolution because both overpriced business travel and operating expenditure are strongly criticised.
in writing. ‒ the resolution makes it clear that the agency must reduce the level of transfers. i can agree with that. i am opposed to a discharge for this agency, however, because of its financial nature.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the european fisheries control agency to reduce the level of transfers. that is why i have decided to make this request.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because, although the agency has a right to exist in terms of environmental protection, there are still doubts about the content of the discharge report which do not allow me to give my consent.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the european fisheries control agency to reduce the level of transfers. that is why i have decided to make this request.
in writing. - i cannot agree to a discharge from this agency. food safety is very important, but through central agencies producers are often confronted with regulations that are at odds with regional conditions. the reduction in recruitment procedures and budgetary savings are welcome, but there is a lack of clarity on various remuneration issues. the resolution makes these points clear, so i agree with it, but not with the discharge, which i consider unjustified.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the european food safety authority is pleased to mention explicitly the reduction in recruitment procedures and the budgetary savings, and to call for clarification of remuneration. i have therefore decided to accept the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the agency is another centralised body to which i have refused to grant discharge. it is a noble idea, but it could actually have a positive impact on food safety. in practice, however, this all too often leads to the abandonment of small-scale farming.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the european food safety authority is pleased to mention explicitly the reduction in recruitment procedures and the budgetary savings, and to call for clarification of remuneration. i have therefore decided to accept the proposal.
in writing. ‒ such an equality body at european level is more of a political purpose than a tangible benefit for the general public. since this is spending money without any discernible value, i reject a discharge. the resolution is unfortunately too lax in this respect: it does not describe the high financial cost of the agency but refers to general observations on specific subjects. that is why i also reject this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it does not address the agency's high financial burden and is only lax in its observations. the resolution also does not recommend any savings for the eige as a whole, although it is clear to everyone that the european added value of this institution is lacking.
in writing. ‒ this agency is a purely political statement with no practical value. i consider the institution a waste of taxpayers' money and have refused to grant the institution relief.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it does not address the agency's high financial burden and is only lax in its observations. the resolution also does not recommend any savings for the eige as a whole, although it is clear to everyone that the european added value of this institution is lacking.
in writing. ‒ i reject a discharge because of the financial situation of this agency, its non-transparent accounting and the ever-increasing costs. the resolution does not name these problems, but attempts to put a fine face on them. that is why i am voting against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds. the european union has no competence in this area, which makes the agency's activities more than worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ the discharge of an agency must satisfy both formal and substantive requirements. in this case, however, the discharge fails because i cannot support the budgetary practice of the past as a result of constant capital increases. i have always been in favour of reducing the number of agencies, as well as of a much more restrictive spending policy on the part of the agencies themselves.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds. the european union has no competence in this area, which makes the agency's activities more than worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ since the discharge is postponed, i shall abstain for the time being. the resolution mentions possible irregularities in a very detailed and neutral way, which is why i am in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ since the discharge was postponed, i abstained on this point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ i reject a discharge for this agency because of the cost explosions, overstaffing and duplication of work resulting from the activities of similar authorities at member state level. the resolution clearly identifies these problems, which is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i am not opposed to the european medicines agency and see some benefit for the health systems of the member states. however, i cannot give my consent to the discharge because of serious concerns about the agency's spending practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ i reject a discharge for this agency because of the high costs and the fact that its field of activity clearly falls within the competence of the member states. the resolution does not mention these problems, which is why i am also opposed to the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds. the european union has no competence in this area, which makes the agency's activities more than worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ the european union should make austerity a key policy maxim. i am sorry to say that i do not find this in the discharge report. i do not think anyone can be persuaded to increase expenditure for several years in a row without any visible improvement in the results. that's why i denied the agency permission.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds. the european union has no competence in this area, which makes the agency's activities more than worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against a discharge for this agency, as the perceived added value cannot be justified by the costs of this authority, as there are already authorities in the coastal states with the same field of activity. i also reject the resolution because it goes beyond the objective of budgetary control and calls for training in ethics, equality, etc.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds.
in writing. ‒ cybersecurity is an important topic that is being intensively addressed in the member states and at eu level. the discharge for this agency is, however, disproportionate in my view, which is why i am against discharge. i accept the resolution because it is a comprehensive criticism of the agency's status quo.
in writing. ‒ this agency is to be rejected and saved. the general criticism is welcome and that is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ this agency is to be rejected and saved. the general criticism is welcome and that is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge resolution and the discharge itself. this is not just about cost but also about demands that go beyond the objective, for example the mandatory introduction of gender aspects in recruitment.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it does not criticise the opaque and unintelligible way in which the agency is spending its funds.
in writing. ‒ although this agency is doing well in its field of activity, i am voting against a discharge for budgetary reasons. the resolution clearly identifies the budgetary problems on which this agency should work, and i agree with it.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly identifies the problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extremely critical resolution.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly identifies the problems.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ this highly critical resolution is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly identifies the problems.
in writing. ‒ i find it very commendable that the motion for a resolution on the euratom supply agency calls for the agency to clarify all wrongdoing and that the report as a whole is very critical of the agency. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i find it very commendable that the motion for a resolution on the euratom supply agency calls for the agency to clarify all wrongdoing and that the report as a whole is very critical of the agency. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost. i also reject the resolution because, while it criticises the budgetary management, it gives a disproportionate credit to the foundation's work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, because i do not think it is sufficiently critical of the foundation and does not give credit to its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, because i do not think it is sufficiently critical of the foundation and does not give credit to its work.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly identifies the problems. the report criticises the use of funds, inconsistencies in accounting and duplications in the agency's activities, which overlap with those of other agencies.
in writing. ‒ having strongly criticised not only the way the european judicial cooperation agency is using its resources, but also its accounting and duplicity, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ having strongly criticised not only the way the european judicial cooperation agency is using its resources, but also its accounting and duplicity, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of disproportionate cost structures, lack of transparency, lack of publicity, insufficient parliamentary and democratic control and an inaccurate allocation of tasks, but i abstain from voting on the resolution as it does not make any demands and is therefore empty of substance.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the european police office, as no demands are made in this motion and therefore, in my view, no assessment is possible.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the european police office, as no demands are made in this motion and therefore, in my view, no assessment is possible.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the discharge on the grounds of cost and duplication with comparable bodies at the level of member states and other international organisations, but i support the resolution as it clearly identifies the problems.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights is absolutely in a position to save money because of the lack of activity and duplication with other institutions. i voted in favour of the motion because of the report's critical attitude towards the agency.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights is absolutely in a position to save money because of the lack of activity and duplication with other institutions. i voted in favour of the motion because of the report's critical attitude towards the agency.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, because despite the cost and the lack of transparency in the accounting of frontex, it creates a value added for europe and its member states that cannot be underestimated.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, as the requirements of this motion are not clear and therefore no assessment is possible.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, as the requirements of this motion are not clear and therefore no assessment is possible.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution as it clearly identifies the problems in the administration of gsa.
in writing. ‒ the report's critical attitude towards the european gnss agency is to be welcomed. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report's critical attitude towards the european gnss agency is to be welcomed. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on the vote because the closure of the accounts has been postponed. i agree with the resolution because it calls on the authority to finally take action.
in writing. ‒ the report's critical attitude towards the company and its call for action are welcome. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report's critical attitude towards the company and its call for action are welcome. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly and critically highlights the problems.
in writing. ‒ as the report is very critical of clean sky, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ as the report is very critical of clean sky, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting for discharge for the time being, as the clearance of accounts has been postponed. i also abstain on the resolution, since it neither names nor criticises problems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the request for the eniac joint undertaking because no claims are made and therefore no evaluation of the report is possible.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the request for the eniac joint undertaking because no claims are made and therefore no evaluation of the report is possible.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost, but i support the resolution because it clearly and critically identifies the problems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the proposal for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, as the requirements of this proposal are not clear and therefore it is not possible to evaluate the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the proposal for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, as the requirements of this proposal are not clear and therefore it is not possible to evaluate the report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting for discharge for the time being, as the clearance of accounts has been postponed. i also abstain on the resolution, since it neither names nor criticises problems.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the critical wording of the motion for a resolution on the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking, i abstained because of the problematic influence of the pharmaceutical lobby on this undertaking.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the critical wording of the motion for a resolution on the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking, i abstained because of the problematic influence of the pharmaceutical lobby on this undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting for discharge for the time being, as the clearance of accounts has been postponed. i am voting for the resolution because it takes a critical and neutral view of the budgetary situation of iter.
in writing. ‒ as the report is very critical of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to the request because fusion energy could indeed be a way of producing energy that is emission-free and has no harmful environmental impact. research efforts in this field should therefore be intensified.
in writing. ‒ as the report is very critical of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i reject the discharge on the grounds of cost. i also vote against the resolution because it neither names nor criticises the problems.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the sesar joint undertaking is not, in my view, worthy of support, since it is both empty of content, devoid of any demands and uncritical of this undertaking. that is why i have refused to give my consent to this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the motion is essentially devoid of substance and has little meaning, and it hardly expresses any critical points. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the sesar joint undertaking is not, in my view, worthy of support, since it is both empty of content, devoid of any demands and uncritical of this undertaking. that is why i have refused to give my consent to this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the commission proposal because, although there are some new points on control, transparency, accountability and liability, it is too lax compared to the proposal in committee. i would have approved the committee's report if it had not been postponed, because it is balanced and systematically brings order, transparency and control to a hitherto uncontrolled field of the financial industry, without imposing an excessive amount of bureaucratic obstacles on this important part of alternative refinancing and investment.
in writing. ‒ the report on money market funds brings not only transparency but also control to a previously uncontrolled area of the financial industry. i therefore support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report on money market funds brings not only transparency but also control to a previously uncontrolled area of the financial industry. i therefore support this motion.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this point, as the proposal does have some positive aspects but proposes few measures in terms of working conditions and compliance.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the request concerning imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by a specific union import regime, as the requirements of this request are not clear and therefore it is not possible to assess the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because the regulation is of little practical relevance and is essentially clarifying.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the request concerning imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by a specific union import regime, as the requirements of this request are not clear and therefore it is not possible to assess the report.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report because it calls for a further increase in the budget for parliament in 2016 in the form of new staff recruitment and an increase in allowances. in view of the tense economic situation in many member states, the european parliament should set a good example by working as efficiently, cost-effectively and administratively as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against this report because i do not consider the estimate of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 to be meaningful on the basis of the overall constitution. i am opposed, among other things, to the demand for a further increase in the budget for parliament, but also to the recruitment of new staff and the increase in allowances.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against this report because i do not consider the estimate of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 to be meaningful on the basis of the overall constitution. i am opposed, among other things, to the demand for a further increase in the budget for parliament, but also to the recruitment of new staff and the increase in allowances.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to a european public prosecutor's office, because such a body would not strengthen european law, which is already marked by conflicts of jurisdiction, but would intensify the conflicts between european and national courts. in addition, there are overlaps in terms of content with existing institutions, so that the purpose of the creation, the financial resources required and the benefits are to be considered critically.
in writing. ‒ the requirement for a european public prosecutor's office is contrary to the treaties, in particular the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i rejected the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have strongly opposed the report, as a prosecutor at eu level is another encroachment on the competences of the member states and an erosion of our sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the requirement for a european public prosecutor's office is contrary to the treaties, in particular the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i rejected the motion for a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the murder of 147 students is the horrifying culmination of a series of bloody attacks by the islamist militant group ash-shabaab. according to the own statements of this militia - ladies and gentlemen, who still do not want to believe it - christian students were targeted for murder. if the eu wants to prevent these atrocities in the name of islam from continuing, it needs a strong response. it is therefore essential to support the african union in its fight against the al-shabaab militia in its home country, somalia. but it also requires determination in our approach. the islamic background of the terrorist group does appear in the text of the motion, but apparently the word islamism was not included in the title of the item on the agenda. so it is to be feared that the problem of persecution of christians will continue to be looked down upon rather than addressed. the threat to christians worldwide does not come from nazis or communists, much less peace-loving buddhists, but from aggressive fundamentalist islam.
i have to say, madam president, these horrendous events in garissa are not isolated incidents, but rather something that is repeated with a certain regularity in a certain pattern. it affected christians and non-christians, it affected students, and there were many women among them. this is a pattern that happens over and over again, whether it's boko haram, whether it's daesh/is, it's the same pattern: destroying what is sacred to all of us, and then establishing a reign of terror and arbitrariness. i have to be honest, i'm glad and grateful that we had this debate, because i believed -- when these stories were disappearing so quickly from the media -- that we were measuring with two different scales and that there was a hierarchy of such atrocities. human lives are human lives, and wherever such terrorist attacks occur and deprive people of their religious freedom, they are to be condemned.
i have to say, madam president, albania has made great progress in the last two decades, if we remember that in the 1990s, thousands of refugees from the country crossed the mediterranean to italy. but if you read the report more closely, there is a contradiction between what albania is and what we want for this host country. it is often said that 'tangible progress is needed on judicial independence and the fight against corruption', but little is known about the progress that has been made. the eu's first assessments of albania date back to 2003. so a dozen years have passed since then, and in many areas - certainly not in all - the pace of change is slow. i hope that for the next progress report, albania will be aware of both parts of this word: progress and report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it should be taken for granted that blind and visually impaired people have access to all published works. that is why the marrakesh treaty is a great step forward. that was two years ago. nothing happened, especially not in europe. there are other countries which have very well ratified it: mali, argentina, singapore, india, etc. we hear many excuses why this is not the case, and it is good that the council has to explain itself. i am disappointed with the answer, however. it borders on the absurd. the member states have signed this document, and now we are hearing that there is legal uncertainty. it is cynical because it is carried out on the backs of the victims, the weak, institutional disputes and political conflicts. ladies and gentlemen, this is a human rights issue. there must be no delay in their implementation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me briefly highlight the economic policy guidelines that shape the 2013 annual report and the image of the european investment bank, which have also been very well elaborated by the rapporteur. these include the increase in financing activity by 37% to eur 75,1 billion after the capital increase, the decrease in public and private investment by 18% compared to the level of 2007 and the dramatic drop in lending to smes by 35% between 2008 and 2013. the report rightly stated - and this was also confirmed by the eib and, of course, subsequently by the ecb - that the allocation of funds, the financial instruments provided by the eib, are of course not a substitute for national economic policies, structural reforms and fiscal consolidation in the member states. unfortunately, this is not working to the extent we would like. we know that the country-specific recommendations are only implemented by 10%, and that will lead us to believe that despite the efsi, which is the central issue we are talking about today, we probably cannot achieve the growth we want.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of promoting education and information campaigns to prevent addiction, whether to alcohol, tobacco or drugs. however, prevention of addiction is not a matter for the eu and should remain a matter for the member states, given regional demographic, cultural and social differences in order to increase the efficiency of the measures to be applied .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a new alcohol strategy. eu-wide coordinated solutions to the problem of addiction are desirable. it should be noted, however, that there must be a clear distinction between the consumption of alcohol and its abuse. our millennia-old european culture of wine and beer production must be preserved. we must also avoid labelling jungles: labelling is not a panacea! information campaigns and active education often do more.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report on the strategy against alcohol abuse as this subject is outside the competence of the european union and is therefore unnecessary or contrary to the treaty.
in writing. ‒ the use of recreational substances such as alcohol and cigarettes has long been subject to strict regulation. further strategies against alcohol abuse are now planned. i regret that the draft does not contain any specific suggestions on how to protect minors from alcohol. new labelling will not deter consumers from consuming alcohol. i think that this regulation should be rejected. i expect constructive proposals which actually protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report on the strategy against alcohol abuse as this subject is outside the competence of the european union and is therefore unnecessary or contrary to the treaty.
in writing. ‒ the report makes good reporting requirements for compliance with the code of conduct by companies producing in bangladesh and having their sales market in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the community's energy sector. that is why i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the report on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of play of the sustainability pact makes viable demands on the code of conduct of companies that not only produce there but also have their market in europe. in addition, adherence to such standards is very important for the creation of wealth in these countries, in order to retain potential economic refugees, and is not incompatible with low production costs. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ it is now two years since the catastrophic collapse of the factory building in bangladesh, which killed over 1 100 people. it is just one of many terrible examples of the systematic disregard for the fundamental right to safety and health. this is a matter of social responsibility, but above all of legal responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the partial non-minimization of the compensation payments by the companies responsible cannot be considered as compensation for the tragedies. because an estimated 3,000 victims of the rana plaza disaster are still waiting two years later for 30% of their share! this is unacceptable. we in the european union, which is one of the largest markets for asian products, also have a social responsibility towards the workers concerned: european companies should not be allowed to hide behind a chain of subcontractors and even profit from the obvious abuses! we must also take the values we have inscribed in our charter of fundamental rights to the outside world, rather than tolerating these prevailing practices. too little has been done, and there is still more to be done. and it's now, not after the fifth or tenth anniversary. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the report on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of play of the sustainability pact makes viable demands on the code of conduct of companies that not only produce there but also have their market in europe. in addition, adherence to such standards is very important for the creation of wealth in these countries, in order to retain potential economic refugees, and is not incompatible with low production costs. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against the report on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and eu migration and asylum policy, as i do not consider the whole report as a whole to be meaningful. i cannot support, among other things, the demand for a binding quota to be set by the commission for the distribution of asylum seekers among the member states, but also the pointless financing of resettlement programmes and the uncontrolled mass reception of refugees.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has today adopted a resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, calling on the council and the member states to act on the matter. the credibility of europe is at stake, because without solidarity europe is not europe. we need a holistic approach to european asylum and migration policy with concrete, workable measures. an important step in this reorientation is the reinforcement and expansion of the competences of the two main actors, easo and frontex. we must also take a stronger stance against human smuggling, in particular by working more closely with the third countries concerned. the 'mare' team, coordinated by europol, is making an important contribution to the fight against organised crime, but it is not enough on its own. here too, as in so many other areas of asylum and migration policy, we need the member states to do more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against the report on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and eu migration and asylum policy, as i do not consider the whole report as a whole to be meaningful. i cannot support, among other things, the demand for a binding quota to be set by the commission for the distribution of asylum seekers among the member states, but also the pointless financing of resettlement programmes and the uncontrolled mass reception of refugees.
in writing. ‒ the council's position has been noted. i could not support the amendments.
in writing. ‒ in view of the tragedy of 2 april 2014, when more than 148 people were killed and several seriously injured after a 15-hour hostage situation, the majority of whom were students of the christian faith, and the fact that this report as a whole condemns the persecution of christians worldwide, i have agreed to this request. it would have been desirable if the european parliament had also stated the reason for these murders. unfortunately, at the last minute, it was agreed to remove the word 'islam' from the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the destruction of cultural monuments by is is to be condemned in the strongest terms. that is why i have given my consent to this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, i supported the 2014 progress report on albania, with the thematic focus on the development of democracy and the rule of law as an important component of the country's integration process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the energy sector is not left behind. i therefore strongly oppose the call for a halt to the development of sustainable hydropower in paragraph 27, as it is neither objectively justified nor consistent with the eu's energy and environmental policy objectives. as europeans, we cannot simultaneously push for the expansion of renewables and a reduction in energy imports, while at the same time demanding the halt of sustainable projects despite meeting the eu's strictest environmental requirements. the eu commission is therefore urged to ensure that energy policy and environmental policy are compatible in practice. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to support the development of the energy sector in the eu. a win-win situation is possible and must be facilitated. i am in favour of this. this progress report cannot therefore be considered as a progress report on renewable energy and a sustainable future in the energy sector.
a writer. the commission is not the case of nadiya savchenko is not supposed to exist. as a member of the ukrainian army, she was abducted by self-proclaimed separatist military units. she was deported to russia under questionable circumstances, a country that is not officially involved in these military conflicts. she has been held in a prison as a prisoner of war for almost a year without any legal basis. that is against the geneva convention, and that is illegal. she also enjoys immunity as a member of parliament. the list of these illegal inconsistencies could go on and on. the crucial thing in this situation is that nadija savchenko's life is in danger, that her health is under attack. we must therefore work for the immediate release of nadiya savchenko. this is a necessary prerequisite for the urgently needed dialogue with russia. if the minsk agreements are taken seriously by the russian side, this woman must be released immediately. savchenko is not an isolated case. she's a particularly tragic case here. there are a number of other cases we need to deal with as well.
a writer. the commission is not jarmuk is one of those places in this world where all the suffering seems to be concentrated and where humanity distorts itself into inhumanity. people who had to flee their country from palestine or were expelled have found a temporary home here, without any hope of ever getting out of this temporary place again. they've been caught between the lines, and they've been taken over by the worst enemy imaginable - daesh/isis. a un official called the situation beyond inhumane. i believe that this resolution is an important first step, so that this will not be forgotten. we must also have the means to help people as soon as it is possible again. but above all, we must ensure that everything is done, that when this horror is over, a prosecution will be possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. robust and transparent benchmarks are important for financial market stability. the volume of €500 billion of financial structures, financial contracts and financial instruments based on benchmarks alone shows us how essential today's report is and how important it is to bring transparency to the benchmark sector. the libor scandal has been raised today. once again, it is clear that only transparency can solve the conflict of interests of manipulation and abuse, transparency both in the input data and in the methodology, because this was made clear in the libor scandal: you can agree on a common methodology, but if the input data is manipulated, you will not get anywhere. there's been this scandal that's led to a record fine for deutsche bank. we heard about it. this report is an important first step in creating transparency and security, and also for the benchmark administrators who will have to register with esma in the future. but we as the european parliament must go a step further. today, leading banks and insurance representatives are calling for better macroprudential regulation to ensure financial stability. the european parliament must take the next step here, and we are called upon to do so. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think the rapporteur has managed to achieve a very balanced mix here, both in terms of the critical benchmarks you have mentioned and in terms of the commodity benchmarks, the financial benchmarks, large and small benchmarks. i very much agree with this report and i think that everything is regulated in the appropriate form.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr salini what he thinks the impact will be on small and mediumsized enterprises and how the bureaucracy in this area will develop. will this have positive effects?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would also like to thank commissioner mimica and rapporteur pedro silva pereira. we worked well together. i think it's important to work with the reporters and the shadow reporters to come up with good solutions. i think this report makes our wishes clear. we all know that the court of auditors has of course also looked at what has happened here since 2002, particularly with regard to expenditure. there is certainly room for action and improvement. but we are concerned with providing prospects for people in the least developed countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 0.7% target is unquestioned. the question is, how long before it can be achieved. we have states in europe that are very hard on themselves and are on the verge of insolvency. i think that is why a general, general solution is not possible in the short term. i think we should very much look to 2020 to see all the member states of the european union reach this 0.7% to improve the economic conditions in the least developed countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's not enough to give money. money alone is not enough, you can't eat it, but it's very much about thinking about new structures to help locally in different areas, for example, in health, we've seen this very effectively in ebola, and of course in education, energy and water. sanitary facilities are designed to promote health.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr stier what he thinks about supporting family farms in developing countries, because they are the ones who create wealth. it's not just about spending money, it's about helping people to help themselves. and only when wealth is created can a state also collect the necessary tax revenues. do you think it is possible to create equitable situations in the poorest of the poor countries, even with better financial management?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. investment in development would be a good investment in peace and stability, but unfortunately, funding often goes to waste. we need a greater sense of responsibility, not only for the sake of the countries in need, but also out of respect for our taxpayers. according to a newspaper report, at least one billion euros vanished without a trace in 2013, and then-council president van rompuy simply said he had overlooked the extent of this corruption. the member states are therefore invited to step up their development aid. but as the congo example shows, there is a lack of coherence. it is therefore necessary to verify this traceability. unfortunately, a lot of money goes directly to the budgets of developing countries. it is difficult to see what is actually happening with the money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. the tobacco agreements, as they stand, are supposed to be a good thing. we do not know how well, however, because the commission cannot or will not tell us the results of its assessments, if they are completed at all. but what we all know is that the philip morris deal is going to expire in 2016. that's why i'm asking my questions: where does the commission see the added value of annual payments if the funds are not disbursed to the member states on a targeted basis? have there been any initial discussions with philip morris to discuss a possible extension of the agreements? if not, when will it be? why is time being wasted on a eurobarometer survey on tobacco agreements, and what is the added value? it is time that answers were finally provided, because the questions are piling up and time is running out.
in writing. in germany, printed newspapers are taxed at a reduced rate of seven percent, while digital spending is taxed at 19 percent. this is based on an eu directive from 1991, when online media was still in its infancy. the commission's proposal to introduce a reduction in the bureaucratic burden of vat on digital services, books and newspapers in the eu is therefore welcome. in this context, a reduced rate of vat on digital media is to be enforced, i.e. the vat rate is to be technology neutral. since january 2015, eu member states have applied the destination country principle in relation to vat, which is a major market barrier for digital books, films and music, but also for all products sold cross-border online. in particular, smes face high barriers to entry in online commerce, which is why only 7% of smes sell cross-border. if the opportunities offered by a digital market were fully exploited, european consumers could save €11.7 billion a year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this report is of particular importance to all of us. at stoa -- this is the european parliament's scientific and technology options assessment committee -- we've actually been very clear about the fact that on the one hand, antibiotic resistance is a real threat, and on the other hand, we haven't gotten the right results yet with brain research. i therefore believe that we should be giving even more attention to the perfect life programme with stoa in this area in the future, including in the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also congratulate mr de backer, because this report is of particular importance for our future in europe. green growth means sustainable growth, and i believe that the green sector, of course, especially at the international level, has a big market in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they need backup here. it is also about bringing in new business models and creating entirely new opportunities worldwide, especially via the internet. we therefore believe that young, dynamic start-ups in particular - and this is very well put in the report - will offer a chance to put europe's young people back to work in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. you were all impressed last year when dr. denis mukwege, a doctor from the democratic republic of congo, was awarded the sakharov prize, the prize for his and his team's efforts to heal, physically and psychologically, thousands of women who have been victims of mass rape in the brutal conflict over blood minerals in his homeland. he asked us ten days ago, on europe day, in the european parliament in brussels, to actually pass a comprehensive law here. we owe him and the women of the democratic republic of congo a debt of gratitude. we need a mandatory duty of care for everyone, not just for the raw material imports, but for all products, for the entire supply chain. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. say no to the fig leaf of legislation proposed by the trade committee! say yes to all these motions that we have put forward so that this law will really be comprehensive enough to protect women in the future from being raped in these brutal wars for the blood minerals.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the strategy presented is in many respects moving in the right direction. but i am missing one very important aspect: better access for consumers to goods and services was presented - not a word about democracy, not a word about access to knowledge and opinions. that is why we should put a digital strategy and the internet first. the world wide web was developed in europe, and it was a marketplace, if you will, a place for the exchange of opinions and knowledge, and not just a commercial place. this is the way it should go. the development of a free infrastructure should be of particular importance to us. what has been proposed, for example in the area of geo-blocking and copyright, is going in the wrong direction. we as a parliament must be the first to make the greatest effort to ensure that all citizens throughout europe have access to all news, all knowledge and all opinions. we have to be more aggressive! i do not know how a digital single market can be achieved without a telecommunications market, without net neutrality. if the negotiations are stalled, that is certainly not a good example, not a good symbol for the future.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! the digitisation of the economy is essential to enhance europe's competitiveness in the international context and to create jobs. digitalisation, in particular industry 4.0, will increase europe's gdp by €1,250 billion over the next decade, create 3.8 million new jobs skilled jobs and ensure that the european economy remains among the world leaders in ict. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. industrial growth will decline by 10%. europe has lost a lot of momentum in this area in recent years, and its competitiveness has been eroded. today, only eight of the top 100 hightech companies are headquartered in europe. that has to change. europe needs to take action to do this. what can be done? investing in robust infrastructure, i.e. broadband deployment as a key technology for the industrial internet, focusing on r&d and innovation, in particular the setting of the 5g standard, investing in education, new curricula for it professionals, setting industrial standards and a european cloud.
mr president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the countries that are most successful economically are those that manage to combine a creative economy with a corresponding social model. creativity and therefore the digital single european market need a certain social security to be able to develop. the commission's communication of 6 may, however, does not say anything about the social dialogue, and you should therefore pay more attention to it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. is there not also a very great risk of precarious working conditions or of high-quality work being converted into much lower quality, atypical work? i think the european digital single market has wonderful opportunities that we should be embracing. and the commission should also be careful - and not think that it happens automatically - what this means for the workers and include this in this whole strategy.
in writing. ‒ the report is a codification of existing law with the aim of making it more accessible and easier to understand. i support this report.
in writing. ‒ since this is a pure codification without any change in content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the safeguard measures because they are essentially merely codifications of existing measures and the other aspects seem equally worthy of support, since neither the european union nor its member states nor switzerland as a contracting party are disadvantaged.
in writing. ‒ since this is a pure codification without any change in content, i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for better protection of radio and tv services against unauthorised access. in the spirit of high standards in relation to copyright, i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ as the report on the european convention on the legal protection of access controlled services and access control services concerns protection against unauthorised access to radio and television services, i have given my consent to it.
in writing. ‒ the security of digital data traffic is becoming increasingly important, and in this context, the security of radio and television services is also increasingly in the public's mind. this convention protects such services from unauthorised access to content. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner.
in writing. ‒ as the report on the european convention on the legal protection of access controlled services and access control services concerns protection against unauthorised access to radio and television services, i have given my consent to it.
in writing. ‒ the allegations concern a mere expression of opinion made by mr uspaskich when he was not yet a member of the european parliament. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is related to political activity, i have rejected the request for annulment.
in writing. ‒ on 28 july 2013, viktor uspaskich answered questions from various media outlets at vilnius airport, allegedly calling the judges who issued a verdict against him on 12 july 2013 in a criminal case, in which they found him guilty, cowards, criminals and puppets. in order to facilitate the investigation of the incident, i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is related to political activity, i have rejected the request for annulment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of mr lavrilleux's immunity, as the charges are very serious. he is accused of forgery and use of forged documents, as well as of disloyalty, attempted fraud and illegal financing of his election campaign. it is in the interests of the integrity of parliament and its members to bring clarity to this, and i therefore support the motion.
in writing. ‒ in france, after the 2012 presidential elections, the candidate nicolas sarkozy was found to have used his campaign accounts in an irregular manner. mr lavrilleux, who was then deputy head of the election campaign of nicolas sarkozy, is accused of falsification, use of forged documents, disloyalty, attempted fraud and, moreover, of illegally financing the election campaign. that is why i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ jérôme lavrilleux, member of the european parliament, is under serious suspicion of having committed forgery of documents, embezzlement, attempted fraud and illegal campaign finance. that is why i voted for the deprivation of liberty of jérôme lavrilleux and for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ in france, after the 2012 presidential elections, the candidate nicolas sarkozy was found to have used his campaign accounts in an irregular manner. mr lavrilleux, who was then deputy head of the election campaign of nicolas sarkozy, is accused of falsification, use of forged documents, disloyalty, attempted fraud and, moreover, of illegally financing the election campaign. that is why i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ mr korwin-mikke punched mr michał boni, himself a member of the european parliament, in the face at an event in warsaw. such behaviour, which lacks any collegiality or respect, deserves to be punished, which is why i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is not related to political activity, i have agreed to the request for a stay.
in writing. ‒ it has been established that janusz korwin-mikke violated the physical integrity of michał boni by striking him with his hand in the face during an event in warsaw on 11 july 2014. the behaviour of janusz korwin-mikke constitutes a criminal offence under article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code. i have voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity on this basis.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is not related to political activity, i have agreed to the request for a stay.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of parliament's integrity, all members must keep their finances in order, otherwise the institution loses its credibility. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of mr zagorakis' immunity.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is not related to political activity, i have agreed to the request for a stay.
in writing. ‒ theodoros zagorakis, former greek football player and nea dimokratia politician, is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 in the football club paok at that time he was president of the football club. the alleged offence does not clearly link him to his office as a member of the european parliament, but he has taken advantage of his position as president of paok football club and must now be held accountable for it. to facilitate the investigation, i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ since the conduct to be prosecuted is not related to political activity, i have agreed to the request for a stay.
in writing. ‒ i am very critical of the involvement of the economic and social committee in this draft law. i do not see the added value of the input from this institution, so i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the economic and social committee in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ in the end, i voted against this proposal because i believe that the involvement of the economic and social committee, whose existence is already questionable, will not be very successful in this particular case and will only prolong the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the economic and social committee in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i do not see any justification for involving the economic and social committee in this. it is an institution that creates duplications and higher costs for citizens without providing any real added value. i refuse to be involved.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the economic and social committee in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ in the end, i voted against this proposal because i believe that the involvement of the economic and social committee, whose existence is already questionable, will not be very successful in this particular case and will only prolong the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the economic and social committee in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i am against the inclusion of the committee of the regions, because it cannot make any lasting useful contribution to the consultation on improving the functioning of the european union due to its very limited mandate and will use this new function as a further claim to legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the cor in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because the involvement of the committee of the regions, whose efficiency and usefulness are already questionable, will bring few positive results in this particular case and will only prolong the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the cor in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i am against the involvement of the committee of the regions, because its very limited mandate means that it cannot make any lasting useful contribution to the consultation on the adjustments to the institutional set-up of the european union and will use this new function as a further legitimation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the cor in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because the involvement of the committee of the regions, whose efficiency and usefulness are already questionable, will bring few positive results in this particular case and will only prolong the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not think that the inclusion of the cor in this draft law would add value and i am firmly opposed to the excessive extension of the eu's powers.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the rapporteur, mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen, has asked for the vote to be postponed. the present draft has done well, bringing together the various areas of tension around the important issue of benchmarking and offering viable, effective and open solutions to the problem of lack of transparency and the risk of manipulation.
in writing. ‒ since the independence of central banks and the european system of central banks is preserved and the new regulations do not impose any restrictions on the work of central banks and are therefore not applied to their work, i consider this report to be worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the independence of the national central banks as well as the european system of central banks. it also represents a step towards greater security, traceability and transparency of financial instruments. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ since the independence of central banks and the european system of central banks is preserved and the new regulations do not impose any restrictions on the work of central banks and are therefore not applied to their work, i consider this report to be worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report because the current form of development aid is not efficient and the desired results are unfortunately lacking. the current structure is too often misallocated, money disappears into obscure channels and does not reach the people who should benefit from development policy.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report on development finance because i do not consider development aid in its current form to be meaningful or efficient and i do not believe it will achieve the desired objectives. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ investing in development would be a good investment in peace and stability. in recent years, however, it has become clear that funding has often gone to waste. we need a greater sense of responsibility, not only for the sake of the countries in need, but also out of respect for our taxpayers. the report calls on member states to increase development aid, but lacks a clear strategy and traceability of the projects on which money is spent. it is also not clear whether the financial resources have been used in a meaningful way. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report on development finance because i do not consider development aid in its current form to be meaningful or efficient and i do not believe it will achieve the desired objectives. in addition, massive misallocations are also common, for example through corruption.
in writing. ‒ between 8% and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer from adverse events while receiving healthcare, and nearly half of these events could be avoided. the most common healthcare-related adverse events are healthcare-associated infections (hais), medication-related events and complications arising during or after surgical operations. the latest measures put in place by member states, and especially the progress made by member states in developing patient safety strategies and reporting and learning systems, are steps in the right direction. however, there is still uneven progress among member states. with respect to antimicrobial resistance and prevention and control of hais, there is the need to call for responsible, well-targeted use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine and global infection control strategies.
in writing. ‒ while it is desirable and encouraging to reduce the use of antibiotics in humans and animals and thereby reduce the emergence of resistant strains, the report makes far-reaching and unjustifiable demands, the implementation of which would be an overreach of competence. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against the report on safe healthcare in europe because i do not think the report as a whole makes sense among other things, the demand that veterinarians should not be allowed to prescribe or sell prescriptions, but also the demand for a ban on the preventive use of antimicrobial agents.
in writing. ‒ we must always support improvements in our health standards. the report covers improving patient safety and tackling drug and antibiotic resistance. investment in the development and monitoring of medical services is necessary, as more than three million people in europe who are admitted to hospital suffer damage or adverse consequences such as treatment-associated infections. i am in favour of sustainable and efficient improvement and of the targeted use of financial resources. i have therefore abstained on this report because i do not see any lasting improvements in it.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against the report on safe healthcare in europe because i do not think the report as a whole makes sense among other things, the demand that veterinarians should not be allowed to prescribe or sell prescriptions, but also the demand for a ban on the preventive use of antimicrobial agents.
in writing. ‒ this report is balanced and presents 'green growth' as an opportunity for economic growth, without directly influencing decision-making at company level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the maintenance of entrepreneurial freedom while creating incentives and identifying opportunities is absolutely to be supported, and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ given the opportunities for the economy to grow in an environmentally sound way without directly influencing decision-making at company level, i gave my consent to the report.
in writing. ‒ today, with the adoption of the own-initiative report 'opportunities for sustainable growth for smes', we have laid the foundations for a forward-looking growth policy for small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. for these companies in particular, issues such as resource conservation, circular economy and environmental sustainability can not only be cost-cutting factors, but also future-oriented business models. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the own-initiative report by my colleague, mr philippe de backer, seeks to remedy these shortcomings and to promote environmentally friendly initiatives. i find this report extremely useful as it seeks to improve environmental performance for smes along the entire value chain and calls for the integration of environmentally sound growth of smes into all existing eu support programmes and instruments. this is an opportunity for europe to strengthen our economy while promoting the sustainability we need to meet the climate and environmental goals we have set ourselves.
in writing. ‒ promoting sustainable industry and green technologies in europe is a key contribution to achieving the target of 20% of industrial output in europe by 2020. more than 25% of european smes offer green technology products and services and more than 90% of eu companies are working to be as environmentally friendly as possible. i welcome this promising potential and voted for it.
in writing. ‒ given the opportunities for the economy to grow in an environmentally sound way without directly influencing decision-making at company level, i gave my consent to the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. catch the eye
thank you, sir. and thank you for not using profanity anymore. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 21 may. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would say, mr president, that if you want to make a political statement, you should do it from the plenary and not from above, from your position, and seek time to speak, as we all do. i would like to make one point in advance: we do not support a ban on the death penalty. but what are we discussing here today? you've got to get that through your head. we're talking about something that's not happening, that was never planned. that's what we're talking about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you, on the other hand, are actually concerned with something else entirely. you're saying that you don't like a right-wing government. that's what it's all about in the background. that's the real scandal, if you ask me. it is not the first time that these issues have been discussed here in the case of hungary and that interference is being sought in a sovereign state. as a neighbour in austria and as an austrian who has had very bad experiences with such interference, i can tell you: let it go! if you want to interfere in something, interfere in your comrade tsipras in greece. he could use all the help he can get. however, i'm afraid you're the wrong person to advise him.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is almost as if you were making your controversial statements to make a comeback in the european parliament. honestly, you need these kind of performances. you've barely spoken in a provocative way, and you're already weakening what's been said. you're a master of double talk, a master of the unknown. but this house is not a theater. we expect clear statements. what is your real position on the eu, of which hungary is fortunately a member? what are you doing to combat the shockingly high level of corruption in your country? how do you explain the fact that so many hungarians work in other member states? and what do you want to do to help create a climate of reconciliation in your country? we ask you these questions because we are friends of hungary and because we value the historic contribution of the hungarian people to the freedom of all of us in europe.
mr president, let me say two things first. this should not be a debate about left or right: it should be a debate about fundamental rights and values in this european union. this should not be from whichever party, but from every one of us. as greens, we even criticise our own governments, so this is also not about left or right. this is about basic values in this common european union. i would like to talk about this immigration questionnaire which you, mr orbán, have been putting to your citizens and which is really promoting prejudice and anti-european sentiment. mr weber and you have talked about the significant economic growth that your country has had, but why then have around 500 000 people left your country over the last couple of years trying to find a job, or even a better life, in other eu member states? that is double the number of citizens who fled the dictatorship in 1956. why are you trying to prevent people, students, from leaving your country and telling them they have to pay back the tuition fees if they do not stay in their own country? should you maybe put a questionnaire to your citizens trying to find out how you can keep people in your country, to work for your own country, instead of leaving it?
in writing. we have been negotiating the present legislation for two years now. in these two years, offshore leaks and lux leaks have been revealed, and there are also estimates that show us the enormous scale of tax evasion and money laundering: the european union alone avoids taxes by a trillion euros a year. the amount of money laundered worldwide is between eur 615 billion and eur 1.54 billion. transparency is an essential prerequisite for effectively combating money laundering and tax evasion. the compromise is designed to create transparency in the business sector and will reveal the identity of the beneficial owners of letterbox companies. this success of the european parliament is an important step in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering. but the review of cooperation between member states will not take place for another four years. that's an unnecessarily long time! the extension of the business register to third countries on the basis of a blacklist is also a positive development. but here too we could achieve more and should push for the extension of the business register to third countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the work done by the commission, but of course also our rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka. i am particularly interested in the amendment tabled by the s&ds, from the social democrats' point of view, so that there is a three-month cooling-off period to avoid forum shopping. i also think that the right to preferential treatment for employees is another important consideration. the fact that this recital is included will then hopefully allow for even more far-reaching measures to be taken in the next revision of the regulations. i would like to thank you for your work, but i would also ask you to tackle the next hot issue, namely private insolvencies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. we could save ourselves a great deal of suffering from people falling into private insolvency if the commission would also tackle this issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to say on behalf of the green group that we cannot understand the council and commission's approach at all. the announcement of the withdrawal of the maternity directive is not only a blow to the faces of mothers and fathers, but above all a blow to social europe. how can you explain to the citizens outside that you are defending their concerns when one of the few concrete proposals for improving social protection in europe, which has been under discussion for years now - you said it yourself - is so obviously being foiled by you? we want green and we certainly will not accept that. i also think of the ignorance of democratic decision-making in this house: it is now four years since this house made its position quite clear in favour of improvements in maternity protection and also in paternity leave - a major step, by the way: it is not just about mothers, it is also about fathers and paternity protection. we expect the council to take its responsibility very seriously and to continue negotiations on the improvement of social protection in europe.
in writing. the commission must finally withdraw the so-called maternity protection directive and thus follow up its announcement with action to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of european legislation. the attempt to standardize maternity protection regulations throughout europe has failed. apart from the fact that family law matters are still better left in the hands of the member states, we are not achieving fair harmonisation at eu level because of the 28 different social security systems. the debate is not about whether or not we should protect mothers, as the greens and socialists like to say. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the minimum standards are met at european level, and that is a good thing. i think that further harmonization is the wrong way to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this is only taking away our possibilities of shaping social, economic and family policy. we don't have to pack everything into a european corset.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, as rapporteur in this house for the equality directive, i also very strongly support the resolution we now have on the table. i hope that the request from this parliament for the commission to involve us in properly answering the questions that have been put to us by the united nations receives strong support, not just from my side but from the house as a whole. let me tell you, as rapporteur for the equality directive, which includes access to goods and services and many other things for people with disabilities, that i very much appreciate the commission having made it a priority. we just need to move on and get it done. we see that people with disabilities still face restrictions when it comes to their rights to cast their vote and to be elected, especially as parliamentarians, and we should take a strong interest in getting movement on that front. we see that people with disabilities do not have the same access to goods and services as, for example, people discriminated against on grounds of race. the latter can go to the courts; people with disabilities are not allowed to. we therefore need to get the equality directive moving, and i very much hope that i will have strong support for the amendment we have tabled to include this request in the resolution before us. as i have already said, we have to step up inclusion policies for people with disabilities. that is why i am asking the commission to involve parliament in answering the questions the united nations has put to us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what i think is missing from this debate is that you don't distinguish between illegal immigration, asylum and legal immigration. not everyone who leaves africa for europe is automatically a refugee. quite the contrary: the figures on asylum applications show that about 70% have no reasons to flee, but are in fact migrants who are pouring into europe. if you - i am addressing the left-wing groups here, and i think the epp is one of them - say: 'yes, we will let everyone in', please also answer the question of how many people you want to let into europe. the continent of africa has 1.2 billion people. you owe it to the europeans to tell them how many you want to bring into europe. the only solution is to help these people on their continent, to set up a first reception centre on african soil itself, to determine who has reasons to flee, so that they can take care of the people on their continent and not bring them all to europe. the european peoples also have a right: the right to protect their cultural identities, which you must not take away from them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vice-president of the commission has spoken of a special situation. i'd say more of an emergency. we must be aware of this: people are fleeing extreme violence, fleeing in danger of their lives, fleeing because their freedom is massively threatened. i believe there is only one answer, a short-term answer, and that is solidarity. that means firstly, saving where you can save, and secondly, solidarity within the european union. i do not understand the debate - i am speaking now openly - where some people say, no, we do not need to take anyone at all. you can't do that in an emergency. i would also like to return to something that the greek colleague said earlier, namely that there must of course be a longer-term solution. and one of the options we have is foreign trade policy. we are strong here. i just feel that when we stop discussing refugee policy and start discussing foreign trade policy, we will again be visited by the hypocritical shopkeepers for whom short-term profits for european corporations are more important than helping refugees. i am curious how the colleagues on the right will vote today on conflict minerals, which are about profiting from armed gangs who are, on the other hand, harassing people in africa. i'm curious to see how the vote goes. i am also curious to see how the voting is done in foreign trade agreements when it comes to social clauses, human rights clauses. we shall then see whether there is solidarity in this house too or whether it is always the hypocritical chatter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the commission's proposals because they are a step in the right direction, but the problem is very complex and will require a lot of effort to solve it. i would like to draw attention to one aspect: the situation in the regions of origin. i myself have been in iraq and lebanon in recent months, and when you have these experiences, you also understand why people want to go to europe. there are 500,000 children in lebanon, and only 100,000 of them have the opportunity to go to school. so far, only 8% of the funds promised for iraq have actually been received. starting in june, there will be food cuts in the refugee camps in northern iraq. if we do not solve these problems, ladies and gentlemen, it will be too late, because then our work will be like that of sisyphus.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're seeing more and more refugees fleeing war, from conflict situations, and i hope that in the subsequent vote today, you will support a strong resolution, a strong bill against conflict minerals, that actually ensures that there are no more wars in these areas for resources that we need for our phones and so on. but now it's also about seeing what we're doing here. i am very glad that many in this house are also in favour of a quota system. i can tell you that in austria, at the moment, over 70% of the population are in favour. and i really do not see why other countries do not declare this solidarity. we need common solidarity here. we must change the dublin system, but at least as a first step we must say: everyone must participate, including those who are saying no now. and finally, to set up tent cities, as we are doing in austria, for 300 refugees, seems to me to be a panic reaction. it can't go that way.
in writing. the proposals of the foreign and defence ministers on the future treatment of refugees arriving via the mediterranean are naive and dangerous. i'll tell you why: it's naive to think that libya, where there are currently two completely divided governments, will have a european force patrolling the coast. and if it does, it could be very dangerous. not only libyan militias could take action against this, but also fighters of the so-called islamic state would have a perfect target for their actions. i also wonder how to distinguish fishing boats from trawlers. how do you know there aren't a few dozen refugees hiding in the lower deck when you're attacking the boat to sink it? this is all planned. and the idea of the refugee camps in north africa has also been revived by the austrian foreign minister: there will be a quick word that very few people will be allowed to pass through, so they will again look for and find other ways to get to europe. i think that this is just a diversionary manoeuvre because once again we have not been able to agree on quotas to distribute refugees evenly throughout europe. but they are urgently needed!
in writing. ‒ the report on the agreement with south africa does not change the current legal situation, i.e. it does not add value. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i also abstained in the vote on an agreement on trade, development and cooperation with the republic of south africa. while welcoming the overall cooperation with the republic of south africa, i believe that the planned further allocation of eur 241 million for the period 2014-2020 is not appropriate in view of the current financial situation of the union.
in writing. ‒ although the agreement or protocol is a purely technical measure, i have some concerns about its content which ultimately led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i also abstained in the vote on an agreement on trade, development and cooperation with the republic of south africa. while welcoming the overall cooperation with the republic of south africa, i believe that the planned further allocation of eur 241 million for the period 2014-2020 is not appropriate in view of the current financial situation of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report in the committee, because the trend here is towards the gradual abolition of cash. although this is an approval without a vote, i would like to say that i still reject this proposal. i do, however, support meaningful and sustainable measures to combat money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i naturally supported the vote on preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering purposes. the prevention of terrorist financing is one of the priorities that the union should pursue in times of is and pan-european attacks.
in writing. ‒ the proposal was already voted on in committee and was therefore approved in plenary without further voting. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the fight against money laundering. i would have voted for the motion, however.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the amendment of the delegated regulation concerning the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol. the current licensing and accounting of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is quite adequate and is also consistently enforced and reviewed. furthermore, further expansion of biofuel areas would seriously jeopardise the fight against hunger.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report in the committee, because the developments in this area are making citizens more and more 'glass-eyed' and creating more and more obstacles to simple money transfers which are not justified. although this is an approval without a vote, i would like to say that i still reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of the provision of information on money transfers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal has already been voted on in committee and therefore was not put to the vote in plenary. i would have abstained, however, because while the proposal contains some positive approaches to combating money laundering, for example, it does not sufficiently take into account my ideas on the protection of private data.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of the provision of information on money transfers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ an important report which has already been voted on in committee. the proposals are to be supported, and i would therefore like to reiterate my support.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to the european union regulation on insolvency proceedings has already been voted on in committee and the text has been submitted to parliament for first reading. however, i would like to note that the regulation would have been approved by me, as the documents submitted by mdep zwiefka would have meant some important changes for insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ if the report had been put to the vote, i would have abstained, as it does contain some positive aspects, such as encouraging the start of economic activities. but at the same time it expresses a certain laissez-faire attitude towards financial responsibility, which i cannot accept.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to the european union regulation on insolvency proceedings has already been voted on in committee and the text has been submitted to parliament for first reading. however, i would like to note that the regulation would have been approved by me, as the documents submitted by mdep zwiefka would have meant some important changes for insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i was surprised that mr winkler wanted to send his well-received report, which is in fact worthy of support, directly to the trilogue after the vote on the commission proposal. i rejected the commission proposal because it contains significant gaps in the definition, imposes more burdens on smes and leaves important questions on conformity assessment unresolved.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the proposal for self-certification by importers of certain minerals and metals from high-risk areas. it is true that the introduction of such raw materials requires regulation to deprive rebels, etc., of the financial base. however, the proposal put forward for this purpose is not sufficiently rigorous and self-certification is an inappropriate means of ensuring this.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies some positive aspects in order to effectively curb the financing of civil wars and armed conflicts. at the same time, however, it also involves the risk that our austrian smes in particular will be overwhelmed by a certification bureaucracy. i would probably have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the proposal for self-certification by importers of certain minerals and metals from high-risk areas. it is true that the introduction of such raw materials requires regulation to deprive rebels, etc. of the financial base. however, the proposal put forward for this purpose is not sufficiently rigorous and self-certification is an inappropriate means of ensuring this.
in writing. ‒ cadmium, a toxic material found in many led lamps and televisions, should be banned. not only because of its toxicity, but also because of formal criteria the request for an extension of the transitional period for the elimination of cadmium was submitted well after the official deadline the request should be granted. i shall abstain from voting, however, because the text adopts a similar line of argument to that used to abolish the light bulb.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the commission's delegated directive. since, on the one hand, the deadlines for submission were not respected and, on the other hand, such a regulation would be quite sensible and effective, abstention was the only logical consequence.
in writing. ‒ the positive aspect is the protection of our health by the containment of cadmium in lighting fixtures. it is not appropriate for the commission to accept proposals for exemptions for the use of cadmium in leds months after a 'deadline' has been set. however, the proposal also has aspects which have the connotation of over-regulation and impracticability. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the commission's delegated directive. since, on the one hand, the deadlines for submission were not respected and, on the other hand, such a regulation would be quite sensible and effective, abstention was the only logical consequence.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion as it clearly identifies the problems of producing ethyl alcohol from agricultural products. for example, the change in crop production patterns has made it more difficult to combat hunger.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the amendment of the delegated regulation concerning the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol. the current licensing and accounting of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is quite adequate and is also consistently enforced and reviewed. furthermore, further expansion of biofuel areas would seriously jeopardise the fight against hunger.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the proposal put forward today does not provide a satisfactory answer to the question of how the balance between food security in the growing regions and the eu's autonomy in the use of raw materials can be achieved, since the cultivation of crops for use in biofuels blocks the fields for other uses.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the amendment of the delegated regulation concerning the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol. the current licensing and accounting of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is quite adequate and is also consistently enforced and reviewed. furthermore, further expansion of biofuel areas would seriously jeopardise the fight against hunger.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the achievement of maternity leave, but i believe that national rules are better than a 'one size fits all' eu approach. in order to express my support for maternity leave, but at the same time to reject a system which is not very effective at eu level, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ as i do not consider that this is a matter for the european union, i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ despite the existence and general recognition of pregnancy and maternity related rights, women are still discriminated against because of their pregnancy. following the period of maternity or parental leave, the professional situation of women very often deteriorates and sometimes leads to harassment or to dismissal. we cannot accept the current situation and the outdated council directive in force (92/85/eec) does not leave room for improvements. the council has still not responded officially to parliament’s first-reading position of 20 october 2010. if the commission withdraws the proposal, the only acceptable option is a new legislative initiative. parliament is ready to undertake a constructive inter-institutional dialogue demonstrating that citizensʼ rights and womenʼs rights come first and we are determined to fight discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy, maternity and parenthood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it offers a significant improvement in the position of mothers and can contribute to a better reconciliation of family and work.
in writing. ‒ as i do not consider that this is a matter for the european union, i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am particularly concerned about the rights of people with disabilities. the resolution aims at an accessible europe which allows all people to participate in economic and social life. the aim is to support national efforts to achieve this objective. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the concessions which the union would have to make to people with disabilities would not lead to an improvement in the situation but to positive discrimination. this in turn would make the situation of these people even worse in the long run. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ since the situation of people with disabilities in the eu, as in many member states, still needs improvement and the un convention provides good approaches in this area, i have agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the concessions which the union would have to make to people with disabilities would not lead to an improvement in the situation but to positive discrimination. this in turn would make the situation of these people even worse in the long run. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the bacterium xylella fastidiosa is causing such devastation that it must be prevented from spreading at all costs. the call for better research is as important as the avoidance of control by means of environmentally harmful measures such as clear-cutting. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution and support the proposals contained in it.
in writing. ‒ the massive infestation of olive trees with xylella fastidiosa not only threatens to destroy the agricultural heritage, but also to put some 8000 people out of work in the affected regions. the affected areas in italy need to be 'cleaned' to prevent the spread of the bacterium in europe, especially given that large areas have already been destroyed in california and costa rica due to the spread of this bacterium. i also think it is sensible to call for research into the bacterial strain and the creation of additional, less environmentally harmful measures. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the request because the bacterial infestation is a major threat to the olive tree stock in italy. the bacteria has already caused massive damage in california and costa rica. the proposal for a vote on this report therefore covers not only the control of the bacterium but also its research and is a contribution to the protection of the environment and the workplace.
in writing. ‒ the massive infestation of olive trees with xylella fastidiosa not only threatens to destroy the agricultural heritage, but also to put some 8000 people out of work in the affected regions. the affected areas in italy need to be 'cleaned' to prevent the spread of the bacterium in europe, especially given that large areas have already been destroyed in california and costa rica due to the spread of this bacterium. i also think it is sensible to call for research into the bacterial strain and the creation of additional, less environmentally harmful measures. that is why i voted for this resolution.
i have to say, madam president, if there is a difficult report, it is certainly the progress report on turkey. that is why i would like to thank kati piri for doing such a great job. it is no secret that many interests are at odds here: the interests of those who never want to see turkey in the eu, the endless conflict with cyprus and with greece, the - i say this in quotes - - western nato member on the one hand, and a turkey on the other, which is moving further and further away from precisely these basic western values. i am referring in this context to the shameful treatment of journalists and the misuse of the internet for political purposes. and then there is turkey, which plays a major role in the middle east conflict and has taken in almost four times as many refugees as all of europe combined. so opposites where you look. i hope, in the interests of europe and turkey, that the number of contradictions will be reduced in the next report.
i have to say, madam president, it is a pity that so few colleagues are in the chamber today for this important debate. it's all the more gratifying to me that the gallery is filled with young people. i would like to welcome my fellow countrymen, the student corps of the montan university of leoben in austria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. as the commission confirmed to me just this week, it is currently examining whether the pre-accession aid, which is about 700 to 750 million a year, should not be suspended, as i have in fact asked for on several occasions. interesting that after years, you're obviously thinking about actually doing it. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the situation in cyprus remains tense. the country under sultan erdoğan has long since abandoned its secular heritage, and public life is increasingly being dictated by islam. this raises the question of who is still in favour of turkey's membership. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it would be more honest to abandon the negotiations and consider other solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the horn of africa plays a very important role in our security, and ethiopia is a key element in that. his government gives the impression that it can guarantee this security, and we reward it for it. the present elections, the so-called elections, serve to continue this role. and we, ladies and gentlemen, should not believe that security can be equated with calm. sustainable security means the rule of law, human rights and the ability of all stakeholders to speak up. the situation in ogaden is of particular concern to me and many others. and if we do not address these concerns, if we do not try to lead a different development here, then we are really preparing the ground for extremism. we will not be able to combat extremism in this region with only the illusion of apparent security.
mr president, i think every one of us was shocked by this brutal attack and the killing of albanians in kumanovo a couple of days ago. the situation is very sensitive and of concern. it is like reviving ghosts of the past, and this has to be investigated, including the allegations that it might have been instigated also even by the gruevski government, or even with russian influence. if the gruevski government cannot answer this themselves, including the allegations – or the fact – of wiretapping, then they really do have to step down. let me take two things that are clear: this attack in kumanovo, according to my information, was not an islamist attack, it was mere terrorist criminals. it is also not an ethnic conflict, which is important to say, and i was very glad to see last sunday albanian and slavic macedonians demonstrating together peacefully in skopje, even uniting their flags. so this is an important signal that should take us further. one last thing: i would like to call on the european people’s party to stop defending politicians of their own political family who simply have drifted away from the democratic path and from the rule of law. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you mr karski for this question. it gives me the chance to talk about the part that i did not manage to mention in my first one minute. i would support very strongly all of those in this house who call on the greek government – on the tsipras government which i personally, and my political group, have lots of sympathies with, in their fight against austerity and to get the social situation back on track – to really be a government that can help people, with the support of the european union. but i think the tsipras government could also take the chance of making something new in the european union, paving the way for an agreement on the name of macedonia, and let macedonia start accession negotiations with the european union.
blue-card question.– mr preda, this is one thing that as greens we criticise – be it epp, social democrats and even sometimes our own people where they are in government – so do not worry, that is not our problem here. but what i meant was what we have seen – and i do not refer to the debate yesterday we had with mr orbán, but am now referring to mr gruevski – that some of your political family have still been on his side even though he has been going a very sort of authoritarian way recently – for more than just months. that is something i think you should not keep defending.
let me simply explain to you. i was here during the debate, i listened to the debate, and then i was waiting for mr czarnecki to finish. it is the prerogative of the president to decide how many catch-the-eyes and how many blue cards he or she gives. in the agenda we had five minutes for catch-the-eye, which usually means one person per group. we also have a practice whereby, when we give catch-the-eye, we look to see who has not yet spoken. those who have had blue cards are not called in catch-the-eye and those who have not spoken can speak. i am not going to discuss how my colleague was doing that; there is a rule that it is up to the president to decide how many catch-the-eye speeches he or she gives, so this is all i can say. we now have a different debate and i will switch to german. written statements (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eastern partnership summit (21 and 22 may) (2015/2610 ((rsp)).
mr kelly, i understood your question. as you have seen, i have just arrived. i have not seen the whole list. i am going to look at it and i am going to look at the time to see where we stand right now, and then i will decide whether i will take blue cards or not, whether i take one or two or whether i just take them for the first speakers of the groups, and i will let you know.
i now have an answer for mr kelly and also for all the others who wanted to know. i will allow at the end one catch—the—eye per political group, and i will take blue cards according to how the debate is going. i will also retain the privilege not to allow blue cards, and i will not take a blue card from anybody who is on the list of speakers for this item.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nevertheless, in many countries there are still problems in submitting projects and collecting funds. i would point out that the young people themselves are already criticising this programme, precisely because the funds are not reaching the young people. i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the council, to a campaign of the european trade union confederation and its youth organisations: back to our future. this campaign clearly shows the image of european politics that young people have formed. unimaginable sums have been made available for bank rescues in a very short time. but when it comes to young people, far too little money comes far too late. i think that this feeling of the young people is not deceiving at all. i hope that all the member states will soon be able to say what the european parliament has said, namely that they have done their job.
i have to say, madam president, economic growth in the european union in 2015 may be a small silver lining on the horizon. but in reality, we have to look at this very critically and question it. because we know very well that external factors are primarily responsible for this low growth. these external factors are the low exchange rate of the euro compared to other currencies, that is the quantitative easing of the ecb, and it is of course the oil price. this is not sustainable growth, and it is therefore critical to question this. the second point which must be considered and questioned critically is that the reality in the member states is quite different - it has already been mentioned today. if you take the growth rates of ireland or spain, and if you take cyprus with a negative growth, then we know that the member states have not implemented the structural reforms, that there is no fiscal consolidation, and that is why this is a figure that does not really help us. the third point is this: we must of course also compare europe with other global economic blocs. so i tell you, the united states has an economic growth of 3.4 percent this year, and china has one of 7 percent. that also relativizes the 1.8 percent we have. what can be done? the economic viability must be restored, the unemployment rate must be reduced, the public debt must be reduced, the budgets must be consolidated and structural reforms must be implemented.
a writer. the commission is not when stevie wonder said in his famous song "master blaster" 35 years ago, "peace has come to zimbabwe, (...) we've only just begun", he had a different zimbabwe in mind. this zimbabwe today is actually a never-ending nightmare, a distortion of that. the latest tragic case in a long chain of human rights violations is the case of itai dzamara. the authorities have made a big mistake. you could call it enforced disappearance, something that the international community condemns. zimbabwe has committed itself to this. we demand full disclosure. we demand his release while he's still alive. i hope that this could also be a new beginning. but we have to help. we as the european union have a hand in this. we can really intervene in a supportive way with sanctions.
a writer. the commission is not the rohingya chapter is one of the most tragic chapters of our time. the united nations calls them the most persecuted group in the world. they therefore deserve our full attention and our full effort. if we fail to do so, it will be very difficult for the region. it is the touchstone for the success of the democratization process in myanmar. the mediterranean refugees are the mirror of our humanity for europe, and the boat refugees are the touchstone for the region. a humanitarian and human rights-based solution to the rohingya problem is urgent. the most important contribution can probably only be made within the region itself. there must be a solution here, there must be recognition of the rohingya as a population. we as the european union also have the opportunity to intervene in the framework of our programmes. we are the largest trading partner of some of the neighbouring countries, such as bangladesh, and therefore we can also have a direct influence.
in writing. ‒ this report points to a development in the common security and defence policy which i, as an austrian, cannot support. this development amounts to the creation of a joint army with an offensive orientation, which also carries out combat operations in conflicts outside the eu, which is why i must reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the development of the common security and defence policy towards a common army with an offensive orientation, which will carry out operations outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it says that the boundaries between external and internal security are becoming increasingly blurred. this is why more coherence between external and internal instruments and enhanced cooperation and coordination between member states is desired, in particular in the areas of counter-terrorism, organised crime, cyber defence and migration. the report does not, however, clearly define terms such as terrorism. the eu budget will also be used to finance international military operations. i do not support this report because of the ambiguity of the statements and definitions.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the development of the common security and defence policy towards a common army with an offensive orientation, which will carry out operations outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ more coordination and pooling of resources within the european defence agency are sensible proposals. i fully support the objective of increasing the compatibility of military equipment and operational capabilities of the member states, i.e. to have synergy effects. but i do not think that transfer and centralisation at european level would be appropriate, since it would no longer be the member states themselves but the commission and the european parliament which would have a major say. that's why i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ in principle, a sustainable funding mechanism and common market research, industrial research, space research and development policies are important and useful. but on the other hand, they inflate the eu's apparatus and budget. that is why i have abstained on this point.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, although the proposed creation of a european defence market to eliminate overlaps and reduce administrative work is sensible from an austrian point of view. however, the lack of consolidation, cost-efficiency and transparency in defence markets means that external dependencies, such as on large military alliances, could increase further. in view of austria's neutrality, i shall abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the security and defence capabilities in europe, as i believe that the approach of this report is correct, but that it is not yet ready and needs to be improved. the failures in consolidation, cost efficiency and transparency in european defence markets mean that the external dependencies of the european defence sector on nato could further increase.
in writing. ‒ the drastic cuts in defence can be seen as a threat to european security. it is also welcome to support the defence industry through the horizon 2020 programme. however, the report lacks key elements such as cost-effectiveness and transparency in european defence markets this means that external dependencies in the european defence sector may continue to increase. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the security and defence capabilities in europe, as i believe that the approach of this report is correct, but that it is not yet ready and needs to be improved. the failures in consolidation, cost efficiency and transparency in european defence markets mean that the external dependencies of the european defence sector on nato could further increase.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i wonder what kind of genius is behind a strategy in a security situation which is becoming more and more risky, with the russians and americans deploying more and more military equipment around ukraine. in this situation, to focus on climate protection and to ignore the successful concept of a g8 summit, with the russians present, and to reduce it to a g7 summit, is a slippery slope. that is also bad and we should address it accordingly. i also expect that we, the powerful nations and communities of the world, will finally put the financial and banking system on a leash. since 2008, we have been talking about implementing a separate banking system, regulating financial and high-speed trading in the area of financial systems. nothing happens for that. half a billion euros in security costs, 20,000 police officers! and then the community moves on from germany to my home country of tyrol, where the bilderbergers debate behind closed doors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the present decision, which we voted on in the committee on agriculture - and the word 'chocolate milk' has been used several times today - it will also no longer be possible to give fruit yoghurt and fruit milk in schools. i think this is a very big problem because, even if we follow the proposals of the socialists and marc tarabella, the school milk programme will only support more drinking milk or buttermilk or kefir. i should like to thank mrs sofia ribeiro very warmly, who has also been very active in trying to bring about changes. i can only give the example of my own member state: if the present proposal were to be voted on again as it was in the committee on agriculture, we in austria would lose 85% of our very successful school milk programme, because we could no longer spend on cocoa, fruit yoghurt and fruit milk. i would find that very unfortunate, because - and i might also like to address mr zullo, and marc tarabella has also said this repeatedly - it is not the large companies that produce these products. these are all family farms which, in addition to farming, also produce milk for the dairy farms and supply milk directly to schools. these are very small companies that also source, for example, strawberry preparation from organic farms that also produce it specifically for the school milk programmes. i would be very sorry if we could not finance this in the future. i think we're going too far here. the member states are well aware of this. and this school milk, this cocoa, this fruit yogurt is very much a barrier for the children to not go for chocolate bars or lemonade, which have much more sugar. i believe that we in the european parliament do not have to be more papal than the pope, but we can very well trust that parents, schools and above all the member states know what they are giving out to children.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this unfortunate cyber attack has once again made it clear to us what threats to freedom of information are possible. no one knows when or where similar attacks will happen next. the self-proclaimed islamist cyber caliphate, which proudly claims to have carried out the attack, has previously hacked the us military and the twitter account of the us news magazine newsweek. cyberattacks are increasingly being used as a means of warfare in a wide variety of places and by a wide variety of actors. but the cyber caliphs are primarily concerned with something very fundamental, namely, hitting western culture at its most important point, freedom of expression. this was probably deliberately used in the hope of forcing us to give up a piece of freedom of speech. when media change their work because they are afraid of becoming victims of terrorist actions, then this threatens our democratic society. another obvious fact: we should be clear that the internet is not the cause of terrorism; rather, it is being exploited. we could have the most secure internet in the world. attacks will still happen. but there are many ways to maximize safety. since 2013, there has been significant activity and parliament has seen itself as a pioneer in this area. unfortunately, the necessary coherence is often lacking, with too many actors pulling in different directions. cybersecurity should not be blocked by national egos. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that the important issue of cybersecurity does not remain stuck in the opaque maze of the eu institutions. we need a legal basis.
in writing. cyber jihadists recently attacked the french tv channel tv5 monde. eleven channels in 200 countries have been down, the broadcast center was taken over by hackers, and personal data of french soldiers fighting against isis has been made public. this massive attack on a leading medium and the threat to military families represents a new dimension of cyberwarfare whose impact cannot be underestimated. these cyber attacks on the media are primarily aimed at restricting freedom of expression and media freedom, thereby destabilising our culture and our european value system. it is therefore necessary to give it security the highest priority, to increase investment at the enterprise level, to introduce awareness-raising measures and to classify it systems as having a similar protection value as critical infrastructure. because in addition to media such as tv5 monde, le soir, the huffington post, new york times, etc., power grids, banks, health data and so on could soon be hacked on a large scale. the negative spectrum here ranges from political agitation to economic espionage to cyber-jihadism. europe and the member states must respond to this development with all their determination and professionalism. clear cybersecurity guidelines are an important first step.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the motion for a resolution on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. this 'school fruit programme' will include milk and other dairy products, including those in lactose-free form, in addition to fruit. the report also suggests that in future, products should be sourced locally and contain less chemicals. however, i reject the eu's self-referral which is associated with this.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the motion for a resolution on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. this 'school fruit programme' will include milk and other dairy products, including those in lactose-free form, in addition to fruit. the report also suggests that in future, products should be sourced locally and contain less chemicals. however, i reject the eu's self-referral which is associated with this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, eight days from now the baku 2015 european games will start, in baku. since last summer, in azerbaijan, almost every human rights defender has been put into jail, and we have an oral question on the agenda on wednesday evening to debate this, but there was no agreement to have a resolution. all the other big institutions that work on human rights – like the council of europe across the river there, nils muižnieks, human rights commissioner of the council of europe, michel forst, un special rapporteur on human rights defenders, and dunja mijatović, the osceʼs representative on freedom of the media – all these have spoken out in writing that sport cannot ignore human rights. so i think that the plenary of this parliament should not, cannot and must not shy away but should accept our responsibilities and also express ourselves in writing, via a resolution. we need a clear message from here to make sure that people like leyla yunus, who was a nominee and shortlisted for the sakharov prize last year, and many others, will be freed and that these games will not overshadow the deep and bad human rights situation in azerbaijan. so i ask you to vote in favour of a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to make a request. i heard that one of the liberals had a voting machine that didn't work. i do not know how he or she would have voted, but if so, then that should be noted, whether or not a vote had been taken. but i hope, of course, for that.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i see the situation a little differently from mr dalton. i believe that the russian embargo was not caused by farmers and that it is our duty to intervene in this matter. and i think this embargo also shows how important the crisis reserve is in the agricultural sector. for example, the fruit and vegetable market in europe has been able to benefit considerably from these special measures. for austria, for example, this means an extra 100 000 euro for export measures to third countries, which will certainly reduce the burden on the markets and thus help farmers. and i think that's an important measure in times of crisis. however, and i would like to stress this very strongly, we are still being asked to do more work on this. communication, for example in emergency situations, needs to be significantly improved. we need a lean and efficient system of handling. the aid in times of crisis must not become a chore for the farmers and more bureaucracy. i would really like to ask the commission to present a comprehensive evaluation of the exceptional special measures. we cannot wait for the next crisis to improve the instruments and, for example, to put forward eu-wide approaches to crisis management, including an adequate budget. in conclusion, i would like to draw attention once again - as my colleague, sofia ribeiro, has done - to the dairy sector. on 31 march, the milk quota was exhausted throughout europe, and this poses very great challenges for our dairy farmers in mountain areas in particular, and - she has mentioned this - also in disadvantaged and outermost regions. the abolition of the super levy in the next quota year will again deprive the milk sector of considerable resources. i would ask you, commissioner, to make every effort to ensure that these measures and the revenue from the super levy are used to strengthen the competitiveness of the milk sector.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs maria noichl, in all her capacity, for the really excellent work she has done here. the report, which we voted for in the committee, criticises the growing stagnation in gender equality and calls on the commission to develop a new eu strategy for women's rights and equality between women and men beyond 2015. i am pleased to have contributed to a report which sets out the policy direction for equality between women and men for the next five years and which contains concrete suggestions for improvement on many important issues. we have managed to develop a holistic package of measures addressing disadvantages in different areas of life. violence against women, the difficult role of women in the labour market and the issue of reproductive health are just a few examples of the issues addressed in this report. it is only by making comprehensive and holistic proposals to the commission that we can improve the situation of women in europe and make equality between women and men a priority for the eu. unfortunately, as we have just heard, there are colleagues who oppose this report, hiding behind the protective cloak of subsidiarity. i would like to remind those very colleagues that we are not voting on a legislative report tomorrow, and that, more importantly, we are talking about measures which give effect to our european values, as has already been stressed by the previous speakers and, above all, by the commissioner, namely those common and universal values which are clearly enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. furthermore, article 23 of the eu charter of fundamental rights also expressly provides for the adoption of measures that empower the under-represented sex. i do not think, therefore, that we can speak of a lack of legal basis in this case. i hope that together we will be able to send a strong signal for a new strategy for gender equality at tomorrow's vote, and thus prove that europe is taking its responsibility towards women seriously. we must not lose sight of one thing: the real problem is that we are writing the year 2015 and there is not a single country in the world where women are equal to men. i hope very much that we will be able to find a clear answer to this question in this house. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– i have to admit that i do not really understand what your question was, but if you are trying to refer to women maybe being less talented at chess than men, then i simply have to say that you are not right.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the protection of intellectual property has never been more important than it is today. intellectual property is a key driver of innovation and creativity. this is not just about copyright alone, but also about trademarks and patents for goods and services, which make a major contribution to europe's competitiveness, growth, employment and cultural wealth. alarming numbers like the 36 million items seized in 2013 force us to take action. for this reason, i expressly welcome both the eu action plan on intellectual property rights and the report on a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, which will be put to the vote in plenary on 9 june.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that this report has been adopted by such a large, broad majority in this house. it creates clarity, it embellishes nothing, but it also creates possibilities for finding a way out and solving these crises. congratulations to you! but dialogue requires a willingness to be sincere. our biggest problem is the difference in perception. if russia does not call annexation an annexation, but it is an annexation and therefore a violation of international law, if russia makes a blacklist and for no single person there is a justification and we make sanctions that have the justification in annexation, and if russia employs people to put false information in the networks as ludmilla sawchuk has communicated , then i must call on russia to face reality, to name the crises and problems honestly and to be ready for dialogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am certainly not a defender of vladimir putin. but let's step back a little bit from this emotional debate about putin, and look at what's ahead. i am very surprised at the measures proposed here. i think it is very remarkable, for example, that we are providing means of monitoring all the russian media. i also find it quite remarkable that there are also means of monitoring the reporting of political parties and organisations. i am very much reminded of the cold war. that's something i don't want to do. as an accompanying measure, president schulz will then refuse the russian ambassador access to this house. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. do you think this is a reasonable conflict-resolution competence of the european union? it's not for me. i can only congratulate you on that, it can make you afraid and frightened.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. does september 5, 2014, or february 12, 2015, mean anything to you? the two agreements that were signed in minsk on those two days would have made today's meeting and many other things unnecessary if they had been respected. but it didn't come to that. russia has signed both treaties, but russia has remained indebted to us for its implementation until now. not russia alone, mind you! there is little progress in ukraine either. we are still waiting for more rights for the regions, we are waiting for steps to be taken against the intolerable corruption, we are waiting for oligarchs to stop treating state resources as self-service shops. russia, meanwhile, is trying to drive a wedge between individual member states of the union. and russia is winning sympathy from the far right and the far left, including those sitting in this house, by baiting them with money or credit. we've been through this game. it must end quickly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that austria, as a net eu contributor, should insist on a maximum of reimbursements from eu pots or the eu budget. in this connection i support the concerns of the austrian farmers and the austrian agriculture and i am opposed to the reduction of a fund whose activities i cannot influence as a member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report on the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 deals with minor cuts in direct agricultural payments to increase the crisis funds in the agricultural sector to eur 446 million. but since i want to get the maximum out of our farmers and i am of the opinion that as much of the money paid should go back to austria as possible, i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on a small cut in direct agricultural payments. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union. our aim is to bring as much money as possible back to austria for our farmers. i have spoken against this report because we cannot influence this fund and it could have a negative impact on austria.
in writing. ‒ the report on the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 deals with minor cuts in direct agricultural payments to increase the crisis funds in the agricultural sector to eur 446 million. but since i want to get the maximum out of our farmers and i am of the opinion that as much of the money paid should go back to austria as possible, i would have rejected the report.
oral explanations of vote
i will give the floor to mr woolfe who somehow didn't make it to the list.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i repeat that gender equality is an important issue for which i am also committed. however, i am opposed to an undifferentiated gender strategy that does not take into account regional and national specificities or focuses on 'sub-scenarios'. genuine equality cannot be achieved by promoting, for example, early sexualization, changing language or imposing quotas. genuine equality is created when there are equal opportunities and recognition for equal performance, for example, when women earn the same as men for the same performance. unfortunately, this is not the case and is not supported by this report.
in writing. ‒ since this report is based on gender mainstreaming ideology and does not offer any solutions to the issue of effective equality between men and women, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on gender equality in all areas of life. equality particularly concerns homosexuals, transgender people and intersex people. another focus is on promoting gender mainstreaming. i voted against this report because it only points out problems, but no solutions and no new strategies that could eliminate the problems.
in writing. ‒ since this report is based on gender mainstreaming ideology and does not offer any solutions to the issue of effective equality between men and women, i voted against this report.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ this report contains many proposals for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. europe's innovative and creative capacity can only continue to be so successful and strong if there is a sound strategy to protect against unlawful exploitation. i therefore support the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen the report because i believe it contains a sound strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a very sensible strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. it is also a means of protecting the intellectual property rights or the idea of a person or company against duplication.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the report contains a sound strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i think the own-initiative report is absolutely worth supporting. the protection of copyright must be more effective, otherwise europe would suffer negative economic consequences which would damage europe's innovation potential.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report on the eu plan to protect copyright more effectively to be useful and have therefore given my consent.
in writing. ‒ i also endorsed this report, as it is a useful complement to the plan and will help to protect copyright more effectively within the eu. instead of punishing citizens for often unwitting infringements of intellectual property rights, the action plan presents measures to educate and differentiate between those who knowingly commit an offence.
in writing. ‒ i find the report on the eu plan to protect copyright more effectively useful.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the course of today's debate on european energy security, far too little attention has been paid to the fact that an important first step was taken yesterday, namely the signing by 12 european energy ministers of a declaration on enhanced regional cooperation in the field of electricity markets: enhanced regional cooperation, enhanced european security of supply. a second point that has not been mentioned today is that yesterday a study was published on behalf of the world energy council which shows that billions of dollars could be saved in terms of european security of supply, billions of dollars could be saved by reducing reserve capacity. up to 100 large-scale power plants could be saved if security of supply is taken seriously to the extent proposed today. what does regionalization mean? what steps are to be taken? the first concerns investment in the expansion of the pipeline network, the second transnational interconnectors and the third the reduction of bottlenecks within national borders. these three points are important for regionalization. the report we are discussing today takes a more complex approach, namely a more complex approach in the sense of a policy-cross-cutting approach. two dimensions that have been chosen quite rightly, namely the internet dimension, where you say: what can be done to increase the security of energy supply? more self-generated energy. the main focus here is on renewable energy, which is good. the second point is the increase in energy efficiency and thus the reduction in demand. it is important to bear in mind that energy efficiency also costs money. and the external dimension, the diversification of third countries, please do not fall into one dependence on another. the last point that has been raised today is that europe is investing 400 billion euros a year in energy purchases. we need to coordinate.
the commission has already done so. we have a debate today that takes us into the future: 2020 what can we do for the next generation? of course, it is not just the security of supply that is important, but also the prices that are paid in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. cross-border price zones would be particularly important and should be given priority in order to encourage more competition. the second area is, of course, the use of renewable energy sources, and in this case, in particular, hydroelectric power. the storage of hydropower is the basic prerequisite for more efficient use of renewable energy. what do you propose to do in the area of natura 2000? is there any intention here to define in the future spaces where water can be stored and where hydroelectricity can take place? and of course, how will you deal with the water framework directive to increase the efficiency of power stations here? the last point: the quality of the electricity must be guaranteed. what are your plans for the frequency stabilization? how can we bring the phases, which are so different across europe, into a uniform framework and how can the voltage in the network be guaranteed?
the commission has already done so. the european union must ensure the energy supply of its citizens. if at the same time russia is creating a crisis here in europe and blackmailing states with gas supplies, that is certainly not the case. it is therefore essential to diversify our energy sources in a sustainable and farsighted way. we must build supply links with new countries and work intensively on our energy efficiency. because, after all, the cheapest energy is the energy we don't use. reducing our consumption will help us to save costs and reduce our energy imports. the funds released could be invested in the development of renewable energies. we could set a sustainable example and create a multitude of jobs - jobs that europe desperately needs. another word on energy poverty: it cannot be that people in the eu cannot afford energy, and it cannot be that those affected are excluded from the supply in winter.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for being with us today, because we are in urgent need of clarification. what we need is a debate on the fundamental questions of how we got to this point and where we want to go from here. we should start by questioning the process by which the increased use of information technology in border controls has become the norm and the policy trend in europe. we also need to discuss where the limits could and should be drawn for a fundamental rights perspective. therefore, before proceeding, we have the duty to examine the fundamental rights implications of collecting, storing and using biometric data for immigration, asylum, visa processing and border control purposes, thus bridging the topics of migration and data protection. the smart border system should not be put in place at any cost. we need to make sure that the system is really needed and that it will be an asset, without undermining the fundamental rights of eu and non-eu citizens. i am particularly concerned, in this respect, about access for law enforcement bodies. so should we not first of all explore the possibilities of using existing systems before building a new one, considering both budgetary and data protection aspects? as you have already mentioned, mr commissioner, the second key point is the data retention period. the ruling of the european court of justice does not leave any room for interpretation and we cannot ignore it. where interferences with fundamental rights are at stake, the extent of the eu legislators’ discretion may prove to be limited. and the question that remains is: how can we make sure that the principles of necessity and proportionality are respected?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the package on smart border management at the eu's external borders for third-country nationals, i.e. non-eu citizens, is based on the fact that 200-300 million border crossings are made each year and that an estimated 2-4 million people with expired residence permits are currently in europe illegally. at the same time, however, the most upright, well-behaved frequent travellers do not get any relief when crossing the border. that fully justifies the project. parliament has played a part in the fact that the commission is now piloting the reality of these two proposed regulations at border points such as airports, motorways and railway stations, in order to give us a practical insight into their operation at the end of the year and also to examine the very important cost-benefit factor. that's good. the cost factor in particular has been and must be emphasized. the replacement of the old stamps is a highly logical consequence. we must of course link up the visa and schengen systems. illegal residence in the eu must be effectively prosecuted and frequent travellers must be given the facilities to do so. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am happy to discuss this, and i may have to disappoint you because i will address two aspects that you do not like either. the first is that i hope, of course, that we will also reform the control of persons residing illegally, which of course must not mean that we are now expressing general suspicion. but we know that people with other visas can also move almost freely in what is supposedly europe, and they have only been granted a visa for one member state. we need to catch up on this, too, and i suspect that these regulations will also be implemented in the future. we can't discuss them now, there's no time. the second and last point i would like to make, which i am sure you will not like, is that i hope, of course, that the data can be used for law enforcement purposes, which adds enormous value.
in writing. the commission is not the resolution by the political groups states that the position of the monitoring committee is not adequate, citing, among other things, unsatisfactory cooperation, insufficient implementation of recommendations and the lack of clear legal options for the sc vis-à-vis dg olaf. in my view, dg olaf must accept the position of the sc and reconsider its allocation of funds, since some 86% of the investigations had to be carried out in the field of the agriculture and structural funds units.
in writing. ‒ this report was rejected by consensus, so to speak, and i abstained. the council has agreed to set the emission reduction commitment at 20% below 1990 levels for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this is an ambitious target, but the eu member states are the main ones to join this commitment period, while the largest issuers do not. although i am in favour of climate action and the halting of climate change, i abstain from voting because of the failure of other countries to commit themselves.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions of 9 march 2012, the council agreed to propose a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% below 1990 levels for the union for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol should make a decisive contribution to global efforts to combat climate change. the official entry into force of the doha amendment is one of the most important goals for the eu. it is important that the national ratification procedures in the member states can be carried out by the third quarter of 2015 at the latest and together with the eu, so that they can deposit their instrument of acceptance in time for the 2015 unfccc conference in paris. i abstained because of the scientifically controversial view that man-made climate change can be stopped by reducing co2 emissions and the apparent lack of commitment from other non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions of 9 march 2012, the council agreed to propose a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% below 1990 levels for the union for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ iceland joins the eu to join the second commitment period to meet the kyoto targets. it is a noble act, but because of the large number of issuers who do not want to be bound, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions of 9 march 2012, the council agreed to propose a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% below 1990 levels for the union for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions of 9 march 2012, the council agreed to propose a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% below 1990 levels for the union for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ it is a mere formality to correct a technical error. i therefore vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ since it is a mere formality without any change in the content or correction of a technical error, i have given my consent to the report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a mere addition to existing agreements, which have become necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ since it is a mere formality without any change in the content or correction of a technical error, i have given my consent to the report.
in writing. ‒ it is a mere formality to correct a technical error. i therefore vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to this report as it is a mere formality without any change in its content.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the fight against corruption is crucial to the functioning of the european union and especially new members need to be supported in their fight against this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to this report as it is a mere formality without any change in its content.
in writing. ‒ this is an unbalanced, unfair and provocative resolution which will certainly not help to calm the situation, which is unsatisfactory for all parties. it is time for the eu to seek dialogue and to approach russia with a healthy level of compromise. we must not allow the already tense situation to escalate. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because i do not believe that the proposals in the report would help to improve relations between the eu and russia.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it presents the state of eu-russia relations in a completely unbalanced and unfair way. i am sure that the resolution does not serve to improve relations between the european union and russia.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because i do not believe that the proposals in the report would help to improve relations between the eu and russia.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this report because it is very critical of russia, which is still one of europe's most important energy suppliers and without whose cooperation a robust energy security will not be possible. the report also emphasizes the positive aspects of nuclear energy, so that i, as an austrian, must take a clear position against it.
in writing. ‒ the austrian freedom party is clearly opposed to an energy union. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european energy security strategy because i believe it is essential that europe reduces its energy dependence on individual states in the future. i am disappointed that we have not been able to agree on this comprehensive and far-reaching strategy. i am convinced that if europe is to achieve its climate goals, it must diversify its energy sources in the long term, increase energy efficiency measures and switch to sustainable energy sources. this is precisely what this strategy for energy security has called for, and it is regrettable that the european parliament has not today spoken out in favour of a secure energy future for europe.
in writing. ‒ the report, under the guise of energy efficiency, tells the european union how to build its house and how much energy it can consume. this patronage of the european union must be rejected in the strongest possible terms! a sensible agreement on energy use without regulations would be conceivable, but not in this form. i have spoken against this report because it is moving towards the energy union and regulation.
in writing. ‒ the austrian freedom party is clearly opposed to an energy union. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution. olaf does a good job and is indispensable to maintaining the integrity of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution identifies an insufficient position of the supervisory committee (sc) and cites as reasons unsatisfactory cooperation (olaf very rarely implements the recommendations of the sc) and the lack of or unclear legal remedies available to the sc vis-à-vis dg olaf. the resolution also recommends that dg olaf reconsider its allocation of funds, as some 86% of the investigations had to be carried out in the agriculture and structural funds sections. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of some serious concerns about the 2014 annual activity report of the olaf supervisory committee. the work of olaf is a step in the right direction. however, it cannot be assumed beyond doubt that olaf is capable of effectively protecting the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution identifies an insufficient position of the supervisory committee (sc) and cites as reasons unsatisfactory cooperation (olaf very rarely implements the recommendations of the sc) and the lack of or unclear legal remedies available to the sc vis-à-vis dg olaf. the resolution also recommends that dg olaf reconsider its allocation of funds, as some 86% of the investigations had to be carried out in the agriculture and structural funds sections. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report is unbalanced and distorts and exaggerates the current situation surrounding the cabinet of viktor orbán. the orbán government was elected by the hungarian people by a large majority and is therefore democratically legitimated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, since his election, viktor orbán, the elected prime minister of hungary, has been criticised by certain politicians in the eu for purely political conflicts of interest and has even been opposed by questionable means in the european parliament. the hungarian government was democratically elected by the hungarian people and the eu must finally accept this fact and the hungarian government.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution tackles a key problem of modern democracy: the rule of law. without respect for the rule of law no fundamental right can be granted. hungary is just an example. i urge the commission to establish a mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights as a tool for compliance with and enforcement of the charter and the treaties. the treaties give us the right tool but unfortunately we lack the political will. i wonder how the council can decide not to act when confronted with the threat of the introduction of the death penalty in an eu member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, since his election, viktor orbán, the elected prime minister of hungary, has been criticised by certain politicians in the eu for purely political conflicts of interest and has even been opposed by questionable means in the european parliament. the hungarian government was democratically elected by the hungarian people and the eu must finally accept this fact and the hungarian government.
in writing. ‒ the progress report identifies some key points with current relevance which should be rejected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is also concerned about turkey's cooperation with russia, which i believe is an exaggerated concern and an unjustified act of interference. turkey also continues to pursue an aggressive settlement policy in northern cyprus and is blocking kobanê for humanitarian aid convoys to rebuild the city and support the local population. yet it continues to receive billions in pre-accession aid. i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ as turkey is in a state of democratic and social decline, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 progress report on the accession negotiations with turkey should be rejected in the current situation. turkey has not yet fulfilled the criteria for accession in any respect, and has also made interferences with fundamental freedoms. the european union is also committed to the fight against corruption, to respecting the freedom of the press and to strengthening the independence of the judiciary. these fundamental freedoms are part of the democratic country that turkey wants to be. i am sorry to say that this is not the case, but i have spoken against it.
in writing. ‒ as turkey is in a state of democratic and social decline, i voted against the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. allow me to express my concern. i have listened to the previous speakers and i have noticed that many of them read their texts from the paper in a very lifeless way, where technical procedures are discussed, where abstract analysis is discussed and where i completely miss emotions in a parliament like this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. and it's not about focusing on geopolitical interests, whether it's american, whether it's russian, whether it's eu-american or whether it's american. the first thing is to take account of the interests of the people. and it's not happening here in a way that people actually deserve it. we must try to find a way to bring about peace in a democratic way, and not - as the report says - to bring more nato material into the region and pour more oil into the fire. no, let's try to rediscover this primitive democratic path, where people can decide their own future, so they can walk into a prosperous future. we have the opportunity to try to listen to people in the eastern regions of ukraine, with international monitoring, again, how they imagine their future - perhaps at the price of bringing the western part of ukraine closer to the european union. that would be a model for the future. we should be discussing this and not just technical procedures.
mr president, sport is something that could unite people and it very often does, but it should not be a divisive factor and something that produces scandals. as a colleague has said, how do we expect girls and boys who love to do sport to abide by the rules if the adults in sports organisations do not? it is good that this scandal is finally out in public. but we knew it before. why did we as a european union not react before? why did member states not act against corrupt structures in their own sports organisations? how could russia get the fifa games of 2018 after the sochi olympics that were fraught with corruption, environmental destruction and grave human rights violations in the country? even worse, how could qatar get the 2022 championships in a country with desert, 40 degrees in the shade and hardly anybody playing football, if at all, and where already more than a thousand people have died in the construction works? both the russia 2018 and qatar 2022 decisions have to be reviewed and withdrawn, and the human rights violations have to be investigated and victims and survivors have to be paid compensation for the pain they have been suffering. as my colleague helga trüpel has said, more women need to be in a totally overhauled structure of fifa, because not only do girls and women play football, we also know how to manage and how to lead organisations, and usually without being corrupt.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the u.s. department of justice is investigating fifa for rampant systemic and deep-seated corruption over a period of several decades. the fbi is on it. that's good, because without the american authorities, this scandal would never have come to light. the us investigation is also a political sting against russia and qatar, which are now looking forward to the 2018 and 2022 world cups. you shouldn't be naive here. the frankfurter allgemeine headlined the other day saying that fifa's corruption was one of the world's greatest open secrets. the fifa scandal makes it clear that money laundering, corruption and bribery have no place in sport. effective anti-money laundering provisions must also be applied in sport, as provided for in the 2007 sport white paper. commissioner navracsics has already said today that fifa is no longer fit to run international football. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and such reforms must lead to the clarification of corruption allegations, the control of cash flows, the transparency of the awarding of world cups and the protection of human rights. that's important, and then the readings will be restored.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the first european games are being held in a country with an authoritarian regime that imprisons critics. sport should unite people, not divide them, it should bring joy, even in its own country. in azerbaijan, this is not the case. for dozens of human rights activists, this is not the case; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the european union. two of them are leyla and arif yunus, the parents of dinara yunus, who is here with us today, and i would like to welcome her. because she wants to see her parents alive again and hold them in her arms. or rasul jafarow, who organized "sing for democracy" before the 2012 song contest and is now in prison for, among other things, that. meps from seven political groups have joined forces to demand the unconditional release of all these human rights activists. and we have asked that no one from the commission, the council, the governments of the member states or other high-level representatives should attend the opening alongside president aliyev. and you know what we're seeing now? amnesty international people, activists and activists are not even allowed to enter baku. they'll send you back at the airport. and what does the second president of the austrian national council do? no ministers are going. but the second head of the national council, i learned today, is going with an economic delegation to be there. and he will award the austrian cross of honor for science and art to a deputy minister of the regime. this is outrageous! and it's a knee-jerk salute to a regime that tramples on human rights and that we depend on because we need the gas. i ask the president of the second national council of austria to make the trip on one condition: the immediate release of the political prisoners so that dinara yunus can also embrace her parents alive! and if that doesn't happen, then cancel this trip. we europeans owe this to the human rights activists in baku and azerbaijan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is also committed to the development of the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. aliyev is going to pay a lot of money for this: six billion dollars, free tickets for the athletes. but when it comes to human rights, this european identity is of little value, the european convention on human rights is being trampled underfoot in this country. human rights defenders are being hampered, persecuted, imprisoned, including leyla and aris yunus, whom we have nominated for the sakharov prize. leyla's life is in danger, and we all want the release of all political prisoners. i would also hope that these olympics will not open until leyla and her husband are released on humanitarian grounds.
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european olympic committee awarded azerbaijan the bid to host the first european games in december 2012. these games will open on friday of this week. 6,000 athletes from 50 countries will compete in 20 sports. even a team from armenia is in it, despite the conflict in nagorno karabakh. the european games are a kind of european olympic games, and azerbaijan has made enormous efforts - especially financial efforts - to meet the strict requirements of the european olympic committee. the operational budget for the equipment of the games alone was 820 million euros, billions of euros for infrastructure, especially for construction, a total of some six billion euros. politically, azerbaijan has been involved in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and has been a member of the european eastern partnership since may 2009. azerbaijan and europe are important strategic partners. for the period 2014-2015, the eu has provided eur 3 million to support civil society in azerbaijan. human rights are important there is no question about that. human rights are also in line with the olympic spirit. the olympic committee's agenda 2020 therefore requires that human rights, press freedom and the protection of minorities in a candidate country must be guaranteed. let us not politicize sport, ladies and gentlemen. i would agree with the council's assessment. the european games are intended to be a window of progress between europe and azerbaijan to strengthen relations between europe and azerbaijan. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs kappel, you have just found that sports and politics should not be mixed, and you first spoke about the fact that azerbaijan has signed various human rights conventions, etc. but you haven't said a word about this country trampling on human rights, especially now that these sporting events are starting. none of us, at least not those i have heard speak here, said that the athletes should not go. but do you think it is all right that the second president of the austrian national council, mr kopf, is going there now with an economic delegation, is going to present a prize to a minister and pretend that nothing is happening there and that people who are fighting for the freedoms we have here are not in prison?
as i said, human rights must be respected, that is beyond question, and human rights are also in keeping with the olympic spirit. it has been raised several times today, and professor marias has also said it: there are institutions in europe, in particular the council of europe, which can devote themselves to this question in a competent and comprehensive way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. please let us have this debate where it belongs, in this case in the council of europe.
a writer. the commission is not there is hardly any region in the world where human rights are violated as systematically as in syria. mazen darwish is one of the brave people who are standing up to this. the assad regime has held him for years, and for the past few weeks, his fate has been uncertain. we must fear for his life. for the regime, he is a criminal because he stands for human rights and democracy. but these are the kind of people that a new, free syria will need, and hopefully one day soon. one thing daesh and assad agree on is that they don't want free and independent people. in palmyra, daesh is destroying everything that reminds us of western civilization, of individuality and freedom.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. allow me to begin by congratulating you on your birthday. this discussion is not about the issue of abortion itself, but about how adherence to dogmatic beliefs endangers the lives of individuals. it's about a specific case, about the suffering of a young woman, who is actually still a child, and who has been through the worst thing that can happen to a person. she was raped by her stepfather and denied the right to an abortion, which is a fundamental right. and this is not an isolated case, but it is a common one in latin america. such cases occur in a climate of taboo and criminalization of abortion. there are thousands of suicides. abortions are performed illegally. and all of this, i believe, is something that must be discussed from this point of view and where ideological blinders must not be put on.
madam president, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first time i visited paraguay was 37 years ago, and already at this time i heard about how many girls and young women had become pregnant due to rape by parents, stepfathers, uncles, brothers and others, with no option to end these pregnancies. at this time, i did not think that, almost 40 years later, there would be this same discussion. that we should likewise ask that not only justice be done to the perpetrators, but that this girl, like so many others in so many countries, should have the right to terminate this pregnancy. and i do not understand how the right in this parliament can speak of dignity, if they are arguing against the termination of this forced pregnancy, the result of rape, so that this girl is no longer at risk. i call for more efforts in the eu-celac action plan now under discussion, in the chapter on gender violence, to give legal and safe abortion an option, at least in cases of rape of minors.
in writing. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in april 2015, a ten-year-old girl went to a hospital in asunción, paraguay, with severe stomach pain. however, after an extensive medical examination, it was found that the ten-year-old girl was 21 weeks pregnant. she was raped by her stepfather. the girl's mother demanded an immediate abortion, but the authorities refused to grant it. unfortunately, this is not an isolated case in paraguay. according to recent data from the united nations, 21% of pregnant women in paraguay are minors. each year, some 600 girls aged 14 and under become pregnant, mostly as a result of rape. in 2014, 42 young girls died during pregnancy or as a result of illegal abortion. the united nations committee therefore called on paraguay in march 2015 to change the legislation on abortion, as the right to health and life is no longer guaranteed and there is a massive human rights violation. it is an untenable situation, a human rights violation, an individual disaster for every girl who is forced by law to bear a child. pregnancy and childbirth are often life-threatening for the girls, not to mention the traumatic side effects. paraguay must grant minors the right to access safe and legal abortion.
in writing. ‒ like the report on russia, this resolution is unbalanced and one-sided, and sees the cause of the crisis solely on the russian side. i cannot agree with the calls in the resolution for a more aggressive approach to russia and for nato to be rearmed. instead of working to de-escalate the conflict and de-escalate the situation, the eu is unilaterally adopting an anti-russian stance. i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ since the proposals in this report, which is completely unbalanced and one-sided, would in my opinion only lead to an aggravation of the conflict and the trigger and cause of the conflict is solely russia, i decided against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not think it has a comprehensive security strategy. i am in favour of a revision of the security strategies for the black sea region, and only then can we consider approving the report.
in writing. ‒ since the proposals in this report, which is completely unbalanced and one-sided, would in my opinion only lead to an aggravation of the conflict and the trigger and cause of the conflict is solely russia, i decided against it.
in writing. - i'm not going to say anything. i am generally in favour of the text, but unfortunately i cannot agree with it because of the excessive political correctness.
in writing. ‒ while i condemn all forms of corruption, i abstained from voting on the request for further disclosure of corruption cases at the highest level of fifa. in my view, it is not within the eu's competence, because fifa is an independent and international organisation.
in writing. ‒ while i condemn all forms of corruption, i abstained from voting on the request for further disclosure of corruption cases at the highest level of fifa. in my view, it is not within the eu's competence, because fifa is an independent and international organisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this is a good day for this house and for europe. i'm very grateful to be part of the negotiating team. the european parliament has improved the financial and content of the juncker guarantee fund for strategic investments and strengthened democratic legitimacy and parliamentary scrutiny. we have taken note of the commission's initiative. unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded in making it a matter for the member states. the absence of the council on this important day speaks volumes. we must get the member states on board! today we are launching eur 315 billion of investment, creating the opportunity for 2.1 million new jobs. this investment is urgently needed for europe and for new jobs and the economy: we have 430 billion less investment than in 2007. the european parliament has set a clear line: the fund must act independently, the selection of projects must be free from political appeals, and the funds must be made available unconditionally and irrevocably. the biggest projects that have not yet been completed must be supported. there must be no business as usual and the fund is not an atm machine of the eib but the support of global players in investment. with the new platforms, we have ensured that investment and research platforms become a distinct structure within this fund, thus opening doors to cooperation with the world's ideas. i'm campaigning for a broad majority. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. first of all, we have negotiated with the member states, we have spoken with the regions the council is part of the outcome of the trilogue. we want the member states to invest in the funds, to initiate more projects and to increase their participation by offering the possibility of participating and extending the guarantee through the promotional banks. and we also discussed and involved the question of involving the social partners and civil society in the trilogue, in addition to the scoreboard.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the rapporteurs fernandes and bullmann in particular, and we together with the commission, have succeeded in reducing the share of horizon and connecting europe considerably, at least by one billion euros. and there is the commission's promise that everything will be done to ensure that no existing projects are endangered: that is a clear message to the market. we don't want to touch anything, we need our own money, which is available. the second thing you asked me about is that we have made it clear in the trilogue that for us, parliament, this fund is to be a long-term institution and we have included evaluation periods. it doesn't have an expiration date if it works well.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments known as the efsi is the juncker commission's flagship investment policy project. with the help of the efsi, the commission wanted to mobilise eur 315 billion over three years and invest it in european projects. with the aim of significantly reducing the crisis-related investment gap in europe of around eur 400 billion and, as a result, creating growth and jobs - a good project in itself! however, there was scepticism about this project from the beginning. the leverage ratio of 1:15 was considered by many experts to be far too high and not comprehensible, despite the repeated assertions by the european investment bank, the parent company of the efsi, that leverage of this magnitude was common practice in its field of operation. the return expectations of private investors who are expected to participate in efsi projects remain largely unclear. and then there are problems in identifying potential projects, because only those that are high risk and therefore not supported by private investors can be supported - all in all, anything but good conditions for the fund! the efsi is intended to support the development of the following areas: the extent to which these projects will have a strategic value for europe remains to be seen.
in writing. the commission is not the commission and other supporters of the efsi are already lauding this controversial fund in such a way that one has to assume that it has already solved europe's problems! however, it is still not known how high the capital stock must be to attract further investors. external estimates suggest that this must be between eur 20 and 50 billion! whether this leverage will work and attract private investors is currently completely open! another criticism is the lack of planning for the use of the money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. socialists and social democrats demanded new money for the initiative. i say that we must avoid imposing additional burdens on the member states. is such a risky investment worthwhile if at the same time the 'contingency fund' is over-exploited, thus showing that the union's financial planning is not stable and therefore secure?
the commission has already done so. the london school of economics calculates that the annual tax loss in the european union is 150 billion euros due to the shifting of profits by multinational corporations. the action plan discussed today is designed to take this into account and to find a fair system to bring corporate taxation in the eu back to where it is, namely in the member states, and to avoid aggressive tax planning. in the present action plan, they have proposed a number of measures which are intended to avoid aggressive tax planning. first, they are a common consolidated corporate tax base. many are now rejoicing because they assume that a harmonized tax will then be allowed. it's not gonna happen. i would like to quote director-general zourek of the taxation dg, who was on the taxe committee, who said that we are talking about coordination here, not about harmonizing tax rates. i think it's very important to emphasize that. the second point is effective taxation, and the third is more transparency. this is good, because it is the only way to achieve fair tax systems and fair corporate taxation. but please, in the member states, not at eu level.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mr pieper - since it is said that 150 billion euros of additional tax could be collected from large companies - whether he believes that we could relieve the burden of start-ups and small and mediumsized enterprises, micro-enterprises, and give them the opportunity to pay good wages and invest again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i often can't stand to hear the word tax competition, because it is almost always unfair competition. employees pay their income tax, consumers pay their vat, and companies rely on tax competition and then simply pay the rates they want to pay with the active support of the member states. you yourself said it: this is a threat to national sovereignty. it is therefore good that the commission has this action plan now. i'm missing a few things, though. i also expect a strong position from the commission on minimum tax rates, particularly in the light of luxleaks. i know you're going to say, "well, there's unanimity here". however, the commission should be particularly ambitious at this time. another instrument where you cannot ultimately rely on unanimity is the state aid law. the commission has a very powerful instrument here, and it is therefore appropriate that you should provide a set of guidelines for governments and companies to follow. that would be a very strong position to take. finally, on country-by-country reporting: we need a genuine, transparent country-by-country reporting, not a narrow-minded version or a mere fallback on the very honourable and valuable work that is being done by the oecd at the moment.
in writing. ‒ mr zarianopoulous entered the ert-3 television station building under threat of violence to read an opinion. this was before he began his term as an mep. his actions are therefore not linked to his function as a member of the european parliament, so that the possibility of waiving immunity can be exercised. in order to preserve the credibility of parliament and its members, i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i would have approved the request to waive the immunity of mr zarianopoulos. in my view, there was no intention to interfere with the member's political activities and the incident cannot be linked to his work in the european parliament. the greek courts are therefore responsible for the present situation and the european parliament should not interfere with the work of this body.
in writing. ‒ sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of illegally entering the studio of the greek public television channel ert-3 on 4 march 2010 under threat of physical violence in order to interrupt the noon news and read a message. the alleged offence clearly has no connection whatsoever with the office of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, since the alleged offence is linked to an action by the greek trade union pame and since sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the incident. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of sotirios zarianopoulos and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and no further charges are brought.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr zarianopoulos. in my view, there was no intention to interfere with the member's political activities and the incident cannot be linked to his work in the european parliament. the greek courts are therefore responsible for the present situation and the european parliament should not interfere with the work of this body.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr voigt, since the charges against him and the related request are based on a restriction of his political activity and it cannot be excluded that this is a politically motivated action.
in writing. ‒ udo voigt was charged with incitement and collective insult in a publication published by the national democratic party during the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as party chairman. i voted for the waiver of immunity in this case as well.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr voigt, since the charges against him and the related request are based on a restriction of his political activity and cannot be excluded as being politically motivated.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments will never reach the promised volume of eur 315 billion, as the return prospects that private investors want to see cannot yet be concretised. in addition, parts of the fund's volume are already reserved for projects with specific objectives, which is contrary to the market character which the fund is intended to guarantee. in addition, i am opposed to a part of the horizon 2020 budget being used to finance the efsi. for these reasons i shall vote against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i would have refused to approve the report on the european fund for strategic investments because i do not think that the european fund for strategic investments can achieve the leverage of eur 315 billion envisaged in the report. in addition, a large part of the money would have to be drawn from special funds which in turn provide funding for other projects which do not correspond to the market character of the fund.
in writing. ‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of this report. despite the recovery from the economic and financial crisis, further investment is urgently needed. the efsi is a key element in raising the level of investment and can boost the economy in europe. the basic idea is actually very good and sensible. i personally, however, lack a clear plan behind the idea. a transparent strategy is needed, particularly on how financial resources are to be used and what benefits can be derived from them. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to give my consent to the report on the european fund for strategic investments, as i do not believe that the european fund for strategic investments can achieve the leverage of eur 315 billion envisaged in the report. in addition, a large part of the money would have to be drawn from special funds which in turn provide funding for other projects which do not correspond to the market character of the fund.
in writing. ‒ eur 630 000 from the fund should be used to provide technical assistance to the commission to review and obtain information on the measures taken so far, with a view to making the adaptation fund more efficient in the future. the amount requested is below the maximum limit of eur 750 000 available for such purposes. i therefore vote in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i would have approved the application to mobilise the egf for technical assistance, as i believe that the funds provided here are being used in a meaningful and appropriate way. i also regard as positive the fact that the full capacity of the funds is not being used up. better evaluation and data collection will ensure a more targeted use of egf funding in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade, such as the closure of a large company. our european companies, which respect the social rights of workers, which have been developed and acquired over decades, are lagging behind because of the higher costs that this entails. the importation into the eu of products which have not been produced in accordance with certain minimum social standards must be prohibited as soon as possible. until then, we can only reduce the damage caused by globalisation in the countries concerned. i therefore voted in favour of the release of the funds.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the application to mobilise the egf for technical assistance, as i believe that the funds provided here are being used in a meaningful and appropriate way. i also regard as positive the fact that the full capacity of the funds is not being used up. better evaluation and data collection will ensure a more targeted use of egf funding in the future.
in writing. ‒ the report, whose voting was postponed for four months and on which it was difficult to find compromises, aims at the creation of a transfer union on the basis of a unified fiscal policy . the growing inequality between countries is a problem which cannot be solved in a sustainable way by transfer payments but rather by structural reforms in the member states. i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report 'review of the economic governance framework' because of its calls for the involvement of the european parliament and the implementation of the economic governance arrangements and for structural reforms and more economic coordination.
in writing. ‒ this report shows great promise. the objectives set out are to coordinate the respective objectives and to promote the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart and inclusive growth. in this case, too, a review of effectiveness would be necessary. unfortunately, the report does not highlight the instruments which will be used to review the framework. i have spoken against this report because of this lack of clarity.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report 'review of the economic governance framework' because of its calls for the involvement of the european parliament and the implementation of the economic governance arrangements and for structural reforms and more economic coordination.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to join that. we had a very constructive discussion. now additional problems have arisen. i believe that such an important matter requires more time and i would also call for the debate to be postponed until the next part-session in september.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not after the greek tragedy, i would like to take the liberty of drawing your attention to a very gratifying fact today, a man who was born exactly eighty years ago today, a man whom you all know, a man highly respected for his tolerance, his worldliness, his modesty, his commitment to peace - he was also awarded the nobel peace prize - a man who really deserves it: i am speaking of his holiness, the dalai lama. i think it is appropriate to commemorate his work here on this day. i wish him well on his journey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of flexible capital markets has been brought home by the financial crisis - a financial crisis from which the us has recovered much better and much faster than europe - in the us, where banks play a subordinate role in financing the economy and the capital market is faster, more efficient and more straightforward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. he said: 'the european economy is like an airplane that tries to fly with only one turbine, with bank financing.' to increase the speed and stability of this aircraft, a second engine is needed, namely capital market financing, and it is: in the us, smes have five times more capital market funding than european smes. it is therefore not surprising that more and more european growth companies are raising money in the us, going to the us to enter the attractive private placement markets. the same goes for startups, if they're big enough. if they are small, they need crowdfunding, but also with professional venture capital - that's not available in europe. some key figures on this, bank financing versus capital market financing: seventy percent of bank financing in europe, thirty percent in the united states. this makes it clear that we need alternative financing instruments. the european economy needs a diversified capital market, a stable financing system and easier access to capital. this is the only way to create growth and jobs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. resource efficiency towards a circular economy: i think we cannot discuss this subject without also talking about the food production sector, the agriculture sector. we have heard today that a considerable proportion of our food ends up in the garbage. that means that we must also include agriculture, agricultural production and food production in the thinking process for this circular economy, as it has very large effects not only on the environment, on people and on public health, but also on animal welfare and livestock farming. i would therefore ask that recital r, which my colleague has incorporated into this very good report, be taken into account in the development of the proposal. we are discussing an own-initiative report today. i had the opportunity to speak at a school a few days ago about how we want to move towards a circular economy. the question the students asked was, "why don't we have big eyes?" i would ask you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to give these students an answer as soon as possible as to why we do not have them. i want the answer. we have a proposal that we can discuss again here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. your colleague, mr timmermans, told us today that the commission will present an ambitious package on the circular economy by the end of the year. that is very welcome. he also said that he was taking particular account of the input of the waste management industry, namely the industry in the waste management industry, and also taking precautions with regard to over-regulation. that's a good thing. i would like to say to you, however, that you must not forget to take the impact assessment into account and, please, do not forget to quantify the objectives for the package. it's been said before. this is particularly important for the committee on industry. europe could thus become a global best practice for the circular economy. this creates jobs, this creates international competitiveness. and in the end, it's about controlling a trend that we're seeing internationally. namely, the waste of resources, the consumption of resources is increasing. by 2050, it will triple, with the g7 countries alone consuming 40% of the total resources. it would be good to send a signal and promote resource-efficient products and industries, following the principle of the sharing economy companies such as blablacar, uber or airbnb.
in writing. our raw materials are becoming scarcer, crises are making it harder to trade resources, and at the same time our throwaway society is growing. the signs of the times are therefore very clear: circular economy, sustainability, resource efficiency. these are principles of the eco-social market economy that i advocate: it aims to combine ecological sustainability with economics, decouple our resource consumption from growth and establish a bioeconomy. although we cannot change our economic model overnight, our aim must be to achieve a balance between the consumption of raw materials and the use of renewable resources. i therefore hope that vice-president timmermans will keep his promise and present the draft for a circular economy by the end of 2015. the steps we take in this future strategy must be carefully considered. guardianship is not the right approach here. it is useless to impose on the member states strict, binding requirements which they cannot then meet. instead, we should seek subsidiary solutions by defining objectives and incentives, but allowing member states flexibility in achieving them. in the end, there must be a balanced cooperation between the different sectors at all levels, so that the use of resources, waste management, sustainability and efficiency are seamlessly integrated and the circular economy does not remain a lofty goal but becomes a real principle!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to have this debate today and especially our rapporteur, jim nicholson, for his report. i think he has done a really excellent job here because the dairy sector is a very sensitive area which is also very different in europe. we are asked to take that into account here. i would like to draw attention very briefly to those farmers in europe who produce in less-favoured areas and in mountain areas, who supply and produce milk with very great difficulty, and do so not as museum farmers but as very productive farms, who bring the highest quality products to the market, such as mountain cheese, mountain yoghurt and so on. we need specific measures and support here. it will not work or be different in these areas, but only with specific measures. and i think europe should not look away from this. we need these high-quality products and above all we need the achievements of the farmers in these areas, who are also the real guarantee of milk production in europe. and here again my request - and we have discussed this in some debates - is: the revenue from the superlevy, which really comes from the sector, should be returned to the sector in a dedicated way. this would be a huge relief, especially for investment and the like, and it would not cost the european taxpayer anything, because it comes from overproduction and it is a penalty payment to farmers. in that case, it would be justified to return the payments.
i have to say, madam president, europe is currently experiencing a gigantic invasion of immigrants. by the end of june, austria had registered 28 152 more refugees than in the whole of 2014. these crowds pose major problems for the local authorities, particularly in terms of logistics and finances, but they are also increasingly powerless to cope with the everyday difficulties of cultural differences. i had to hear from the media that there was a riot in a linz asylum centre because of the food that was cooked by the linz police kitchen, which also cooked for the police. of course, pork is cooked without pork, and of course, this food is also issued in accordance with ramadan. there were suicide threats because there was no free tobacco. it came to randalen because the clothes it was printing were obviously not branded. and the population - we also have a lot of poor people in austria - is of course slowly beginning to doubt the actual need for help. the question of european solidarity in the area of reception is raised, but also the question of what has become of effective protection of the external borders. it is quite understandable that the desire of europeans to expose ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, the report on ttip is now before us, and we must ask ourselves: why not now? in the end, only three amendments were rejected. it is not the number of amendments that should have been decisive, but the fear of criticism and fear and the fear of a possible vote defeat that has moved our bureau to postpone the vote to a later date. but what are we warning against? nothing has changed. there will continue to be no transparency in the negotiation process, investor protection will continue to be part of the agreement, privatisation of public infrastructure will remain in the air despite reassuring signs. the list can be continued, from unresolved questions on the implementation of the ban on imports of cloned meat to regulatory cooperation, which will reduce our member states to the status of receivers of orders and make it almost impossible for them to exercise legislative self-determination. the end of our small-scale alpine european agriculture is also well illustrated. our european alpine farmers produce the world's best raw milk, from cows whose health is far superior to that of their american counterparts. this can be easily determined by the different levels of germs in the milk. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the position to take a decision on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, i wonder why the proponents of ttip are so lacking in substance when it comes to the benefits and only mention general benefits. let 's make it concrete . what are the advantages of europe? in 2008, the us heavily regulated financial market products, while in europe they are still unregulated. the ttip is designed to break up the us financial market, allowing european banks and insurance companies to sell their poorly regulated products well overseas. that's a great advantage for our banks, just not for american consumers. fracking oil is not allowed to be exported from the united states. the ttip is intended to allow cheap oil to be imported into europe. this is an advantage for european industry, but unfortunately not for our environment. it should be said that a lot of the additional exports that ttip generates are oil tankers that are going across the atlantic - that's what it's about. and thirdly, the us public procurement is protected and is a local procurement. europe's industry wants to break through and open up to european companies. i don't know if that's in the interest of the american consumer. i do not think that we should be advocating this as a parliament. this is not about the united states against europe, but about big business against everyone else.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are not going to decide on ttip tomorrow. we are deciding on the clarification, the deepening, the changes to the mandate given to the european parliament. this is right and good, because as a citizens' chamber we are responding to the questions and concerns of the citizens. that is why i also support the compromise for a reformed investor protection and appeal to my colleagues from the social democrats and the greens to inform the public about the facts, about the compromises, about the joint commitment to a free trade agreement and to put an end to the shadow boxes. you're building up images of the enemy that don't correspond to reality. the report is alarming, and you're still going on with your life. we want to regulate globalisation and work for a global economic and social order. we as the european parliament have the last word, and it will not be spoken today, but at the earliest in two years' time.
in writing. ‒ ms bettina michelle jakobsen has an impressive record which leaves no doubt about her expertise and integrity. that is why i am voting for her nomination.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors, as she would certainly be an asset to this body, given her background.
in writing. ‒ it is a mere codification of existing legal texts for the exercise of the community's rights under international trade rules, in particular those agreed under the wto. it is not a change in substance, neither an improvement nor a deterioration, and that is why i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting because the proposal is a mere codification of the existing legal texts on the exercise of the community's rights under international trade rules, in particular those agreed within the framework of the world trade organisation, without any change in content.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because it is a mere summary of the existing codifications which were intended to serve the exercise of the community's rights under international trade rules (in particular those agreed within the framework of the world trade organisation). furthermore, no substantive changes were made.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained from voting, since the proposal is a mere codification of the existing legal texts on the exercise of the community's rights under international trade rules, in particular those agreed within the framework of the world trade organisation, without any change in content.
in writing. ‒ this is a mere codification of the existing legislation on protection against harmful pricing in shipbuilding, without any changes in content. since there is no substantial change in the law, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this one too, since it is again a mere codification of the existing legal texts on protection against harmful pricing in shipbuilding without any changes in content.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report, which is also a summary of the existing legislation on protection against price distortions in shipbuilding, without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained in this vote too, since it is again a mere codification of the existing legal texts on protection against harmful pricing in shipbuilding without any changes in content.
in writing. ‒ this is a formal decision to allow venezuelan fishermen to fish legally off the coast of french guiana. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this proposal as it is a formal decision allowing venezuelan fishermen to fish off the coast of french guiana.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it ensures the survival and livelihood of venezuelan fishermen, while not endangering small-scale structured fisheries off the coast of french guiana.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is a mere codification of the existing legal texts on protection against injurious pricing in shipbuilding without any substantive changes. that is why i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ money not spent should not be carried over to the new financial year but should be reimbursed to payers on a pro rata basis. i think there is a reason why the institutions are operating below their budgetary limits and i am voting against a transfer.
in writing. ‒ i reject this draft because the transfer of unspent funds from 2014 to this year is against the interests of the member states and should be better paid to the net contributors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that unspent money should not be carried over to the next year. financial resources must be managed efficiently to avoid the eu budget becoming bloated.
in writing. ‒ i would have rejected this draft because the transfer of unspent funds from 2014 to this year is against the interests of the member states and should be better paid to the net payers.
in writing. ‒ the terrible floods in romania, bulgaria and italy have caused extensive damage which may have a lasting impact on the economic development of the regions affected. the solidarity fund was set up for such incidents, so i am voting for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i support this draft as it creates the framework for financial assistance to the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was created to provide solidarity aid in the event of major natural disasters. in this case, the eu solidarity fund is being used for romania, bulgaria and italy. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the countries mentioned need rapid financial assistance to overcome the damage caused by the weather.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this draft as it creates the framework for financial assistance to the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ i support this draft because it is essential that the regions affected be compensated. i have always supported proposals of this kind in the past.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in this case too. financial assistance in the event of disasters is essential to enable citizens in the affected country to return to their normal lives as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this draft, as it was essential to compensate the regions affected. i have always supported proposals of this kind in the past.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for the different ticketing systems to be linked through interfaces, so that the goal of 'one journey, one ticket' can be achieved. this allowed for the internalisation of external costs, the clarification of taxes and duties and the limitation of credit card charges. the commission should take legislative action by 2020 if progress towards an integrated, interoperable ticketing system is not achieved at member state level. the member states themselves are invited to open up the current information systems to interfaces and to equip all public passenger transport vehicles with intelligent systems for the transmission of real-time information. this leap forward for europe's consumers and travellers is a major achievement. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because the creation of multimodal integrated tickets offers a lot of opportunities for travellers. in addition to the clear identification of taxes and duties and the limitation of credit card charges, the 'first and last mile' scheme is also a welcome innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it makes sense to adapt the different ticketing systems to the requirements of the 21st century through open interfaces and data exchange. the commission should take legislative action by 2020 to open up information systems to interface technology and equip all public passenger transport with intelligent systems for transmitting real-time information, thus ultimately paving the way to a single ticket for several modes of transport, including cross-border transport.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this proposal, as the creation of multimodal integrated tickets offers a lot of opportunities for travellers. in addition to the clear identification of taxes and duties and the limitation of credit card charges, the 'first and last mile' scheme is also a welcome innovation.
in writing. ‒ the taxe committee is doing important work in the light of the lux leaks scandal and in the context of recommendations for a fair tax system. i am voting for the extension of the mandate of this committee.
in writing. ‒ transferring surpluses from 2014 to the efsi, which i do not think is targeted. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the budgetary deficit is still very high. i vote against the motion.
in writing. ‒ since i have always opposed the establishment of the efsi, i cannot support this draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the draft amending budget for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the union's financial interests, in particular by ensuring that the union's macro-financial assistance is used to support the union's macro-financial assistance. as a member of the itre committee, i also fought hard and am pleased that we have managed - despite strong opposition from member states - to reduce the funds flowing from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 to the efsi by €500 million each. the commission has already proposed that the appropriations for the structural funds be increased by a further ecu 1 million. the annual review clause in the budget also gives us the opportunity to continue to fight for the protection of the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 in the coming years. it is now up to the commission and also the member states to demonstrate their promises regarding the investment capacity of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of this report. despite the recovery from the economic and financial crisis, further investment is urgently needed. the efsi is an essential element in raising the level of investment and can boost the economy in europe. the basic idea is actually very good and sensible. i personally, however, lack a clear plan behind the idea. a transparent strategy is needed on how to use the funds and what benefits can be derived from them. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ since i have always opposed the establishment of the efsi, i would not have approved this draft either.
in writing. ‒ the eu's border security is complex and wide-ranging. the problems are growing and the capacities of the member states vary widely, which has a negative impact on effective border control. i therefore believe that it is right and appropriate to increase the budget for frontex and europol.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to this proposal because i believe that the burden on national budgets would be much greater if the management of refugee flows were not carried out efficiently. the resources used here therefore avoid enormous costs for the individual member states and are therefore justified.
in writing. ‒ the european commission agenda on migration is going in the right direction, but the amending budget proposal is not enough. easo should play a key role in establishing a common european policy on migration and asylum. very soon it will be confronted with a big challenge, namely the provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. if we want the system to work efficiently, we need to be consistent with the budget. only a budget managed in a wise and timely manner will allow the eu to respect the human and fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of the allocation of additional funds for migration policy measures of eur 69.6 million. i am critical of the way in which the recent unprecedented influx of refugees has been handled, but i also see the need for more financial resources as a crucial step towards better tackling illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i would have agreed to this proposal, as i believe that the burden on national budgets would be much greater if the management of refugee flows were not carried out efficiently. the resources used here therefore avoid enormous costs for the individual member states and are therefore justified.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a coherent picture of the european milk sector. i am particularly pleased that he is highlighting the opportunities which the abolition of the milk quota will open up. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because it is partly capable of sustainably improving the current situation of dairy farmers in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not reduced to a minimum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains many positive aspects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i would have agreed to this report because it is partly capable of sustainably improving the current situation of dairy farmers in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not reduced to a minimum.
in writing. ‒ the report points to the opportunities particularly in connection with the expansion of austrian export industries , but omits that developing countries with weak institutions and unstable legal systems can be over-advantaged by multinational companies. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i regret that i have been unable to give my approval or disapproval of this report. the risk of developing countries being over-advantaged by multinational and experienced companies is a risk. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ member states have not always had the best experience with public-private partnerships in recent years. nevertheless, there are many european companies which are among the world leaders in this field. the aim of this report is to encourage these to expand globally. however, i do not think that sufficient attention is paid to protecting developing countries from being over-competed by these companies. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i would have neither approved nor rejected this report. the risk of developing countries being over-advantaged by multinational and experienced companies is a risk. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains some critical aspects such as price support, overall it paints a good picture of the strengths, weaknesses and future of the european fruit and vegetable sector. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ strengthening agriculture is welcome and i therefore supported the proposal. the proposed amendments will improve the sales figures of fruit and vegetable growers and will compensate for the loss of russia as a trading partner.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for price support, particularly for newbuilders. the commission is also proposing the distribution of free fruit to public institutions (subject to a number of conditions). another point is the development of new exporting countries. the report contains good proposals on the whole for supporting fruit and vegetable growers, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ strengthening agriculture is welcome and i would therefore have supported the proposal. the proposed amendments will improve the sales figures of fruit and vegetable growers and will compensate for the loss of russia as a trading partner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to thank in particular sergio gaetano cofferati. he has done a really wonderful job on this report in a situation which was really anything but easy at times. he has really improved the content of the draft directive considerably, together with the shadow rapporteurs and all those who were very constructively involved at the time. we in the legal affairs committee have certainly contributed a lot to the fact that there are now improvements in the areas of transparency, corporate governance and tax compliance. we have achieved - and here i would also like to emphasise the role of social democracy - that important information on board remuneration, tax strategies and risky business transactions of the company are now available to the public. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we need more employee involvement. the original rules required the general meeting to approve the remuneration of the board of directors at least every three years. this represents an attempt to unilaterally strengthen the powers of the general meeting and thus often at short notice the interests of the shareholders, but massively neglects the interests of the employees and other stakeholders. these are the people who are ultimately most interested in the sustainable success of a company. our amendments of the s&d group have strengthened the interests of employees in their role as a key factor in the success of the company. the text adopted now contains something which is of particular concern to me, particularly in the light of our work in the taxe committee: measures to combat tax evasion. i am of course speaking here - as you have already mentioned, madam commissioner, and many others will probably do after me - of the country by country reporting, which is so important in shedding more light on the dark, and which is also placed in this report, and i stress this, in the right place. the compulsory disclosure of essential information by country is an absolutely important concern of our group and should be emphasized at every stage. the reputation of the company is at stake, and the pressure to behave properly is increasing accordingly, and we should therefore be as open as possible to this possibility. today we can and should take the right steps in the fight against tax havens and for greater tax justice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i welcome this important report. i welcome this important objective of promoting the long-term involvement of shareholders. i also welcome the positive developments since the last plenary session and the improvements in the legal text, which i have already mentioned. it is also important to me - also as an austrian member of parliament - that the traditionally successful structure of the supervisory board and the executive board be maintained and that there be no shift of responsibilities. now this seems to be corrected by an exception in amendment no 27. it was curious to see that there were also efforts in the socialist group here in the house to take away the right of the supervisory board - which is the level that is required by law in our country, with workers' representatives - to also decide on the salaries of managers. i would point out that this right is better situated in the supervisory board than in the general meeting of shareholders, where large funds are also important, but do not necessarily welcome this objective. the exception is therefore very positive. the traditional structure must also be taken into account when identifying shareholders. we do not want to refuse to report country by country on principle, but there must be justified doubts that national bureaucratic burdens and regulations will not be imposed. here in the trilog we expect this to be strictly observed.
the commission has already done so. the report calls for greater shareholder participation in corporate remuneration policy with a view to increasing transparency and improving corporate governance. the new law also provides for additional voting rights, higher dividends and tax benefits for long-term shareholders. the model for this report was undoubtedly france, namely the florange law of march last year, and in particular the second part of the florange law of last year, which provides for these very points, namely the strengthening of shareholder representation in remuneration, tax relief, double dividends and double voting rights. there is a lot of criticism coming from france about this law, but there is also criticism coming from bloomberg, namely in the sense that it is said that dual voting rights favor dominant shareholders in france it is the state and disadvantage minority shareholders. in addition, institutional investors would be favoured in diversified economic areas. i am sure that is a criticism to be taken seriously. but there is also something positive that i would like to highlight... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the market stability reserve is a first step in reforming the european emissions trading system. the aim is to reduce the excess supply of emission allowances in order to achieve price stability. at present, the surplus of allowances that could be added to the market stability reserve amounts to two million. this is equivalent to a value of 15 billion euros at a price of 7.50 euros. the commission has also proposed that the 900 million allowances from backloading be transferred to the market stability reserve and not returned to the market. the present compromise provides for the introduction of the market stability reserve as early as 2019 and not as late as 2021 as indicated in the commission proposal. there are also different approaches to the cap and the floor of allowances, when allowances are withdrawn from the market or reintroduced. what is completely lacking in this report is a new regulation on carbon leakage measures, i.e. a new regulation on the allocation of allowances, which are of the utmost importance, particularly for energy-intensive industry.
i have to say, madam president, europe is more than a single market. europe must be above all a common area of law, security and freedom. that is what the citizens expect. they expect the rule of law, security and freedom. this security strategy is very positive and i wish it success. it is very important for all of us that we fight terrorism, through work on de-radicalization, which we may not talk about enough, by fighting the financing of terrorism, which we should be more courageous about, by revising the regulations on the trade in firearms, which we should pay more attention to, and by securing our borders. we must be particularly careful and cautious here, because it is also a question of safeguarding the freedom of citizens.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as the author of the opinion of the committee on women's rights, i can say that we very much welcome the report on green employment, not only because of the enormous job potential but also because of the resilience of green employment to the crisis. green jobs are investments in the future. however, in order for women to benefit from green jobs as much as men, as has been mentioned today, we need to overcome the blind spot of the lack of equality and the so-called glass ceiling in the green economy and significantly increase the share of women in green jobs through investment in education - the keyword is green skills, as the commissioner has already mentioned - and active labour market policies. member states and the regional and local level are also invited to exploit the potential of, for example, public services and public procurement for green jobs and to promote women's entrepreneurship in the green economy. the committee on women's rights also encourages the involvement of the un and the international labour organisation's definition of green jobs. green jobs are not only environmentally friendly, but also existential.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank mrs schlein very warmly for the good relations and cooperation which have been established. i think it is simply important to show that we have been working very hard for many years to set new standards, especially in development policy. but the failure of many governments around the world makes it important for us to think about where the causes lie. we have migration, we have refugees, and ultimately, what happens is that there's no analysis of where all these problems are, and there's no analysis of poverty, why people are poor and why they get into trouble. on the contrary, we find that unemployment is exported to europe and in return, the money that migrants earn partly in our country and our tax money is sent back to these countries. this is because we must be clear that the wto regulation is designed to allow trade in 'everything but arms'. we should see family businesses being set up. and it is important that dual training is also promoted. i think the key is not to send money, but to strengthen the concept of cooperation, to strengthen education, to enable energy locally - many things that will help us in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say a word to the bureau: i find it intolerable that people like weber or verhofstadt - also in the direction of my political group - are talking about extremism here. the opposite is true. if you are for patriotism, for freedom, for sovereignty and for democracy, that is not extremism. i also expect the bureau to intervene in such outrageous allegations. to mr tsipras: i also represent a country which has helped you with up to 9 billion euros. i miss your commitment to repaying that money. it's a matter of honor and decency to pay back your debts. i know that this year's aid money did not reach your people. you're unhappy in this situation, too, and there's only one way to end it. if you want to implement your marxist model in greece, then do it. but do it with the money of the greek billionaires and shipowners, not with the money of the european taxpayers. the only way for them to prepare themselves for the future is to move from the euro to the drachma. attract yourself, do your homework, and if you're economically fit enough to want to return, and meet all the requirements, then you're welcome to come back.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! first to the council: i share jean-claude juncker's disappointment at the lack of european solidarity and common political will to come up with a mandatory key for people fleeing to the eu. it is a disgrace how we, as a community of rights and values, are behaving in the face of the largest wave of refugees in decades. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is more than the sum of national egos. the eu is a community of values and laws. mr weber was merely reminding us of that. the reactions show how necessary this was. without acting as a community of solidarity, greece would have been insolvent long ago. mr tsipras, you have disappointed us today. you have missed another opportunity today, as you have since you took office. we don't know what you want, not even today. we have not heard a single concrete proposal today on how to fight corruption, how to increase tax revenues, how to make administration more efficient, how to prevent humanitarian disaster, how to create growth and employment. you have only 48 hours left. you're going to have to start working and taking responsibility. stop playing the nations against each other. stop playing games. i have a feeling you don't want to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. opposition to the unification of tickets is legitimate. but the hitler salute, ladies and gentlemen, has lost absolutely nothing in this house. (applause from the centre and the right) it is absolutely inexcusable to trivialize this greeting, which is synonymous with the horrors of the nazi era, in a debate on the standardization of tickets. i would ask you, mr president, and i trust you to take the necessary steps, as you have done in the past, to ensure that mr korwin-mikke does not make light of this greeting in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's really frightening, and we don't have to look very far into the past to see very profound changes in our society. tunisia, france, again france, kuwait. this is the first time we've seen this. i come from the city of graz in austria, where three weeks ago there was also an attack, in which three people were killed and forty injured, and where it was not yet clear whether this was not also motivated by a radical islamic man. when you come this close to these attacks, you can believe me, you are naturally very shocked. it is also particularly shocking, of course, when people - like us liberals - have been warning for years that radical islam will not shy away from attacks in europe, and when we have been warning for years that radical islam is already at the heart of our society. we always hear and read in the media and from responsible politicians: these are all lone killers. it's starting to dawn on me that we're dealing with an army of individual offenders here, my esteemed colleagues. we also know that is is already using the refugee wave to bring new assassins to europe in a targeted way. there are three different routes. the most dangerous route is through bulgaria with fake passports. then there are these assassins with eu passports. the next battlefield will be called europe, titled the world. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism, and it is not just the european union that is responsible for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, these are the occasions that we remember the innocent victims of terrorist attacks. i find that very threatening! i'm afraid it won't be the last time, but that these things will always come back. we can only hope that we can increase these intervals. this enemy that threatens us is a very bad enemy. he's targeting our civilization, our freedom, our freedom as individuals, our freedom of religion, our freedom of speech, how we want to live our lives. we must fight this enemy by all means necessary: with intelligence, with determination and proactively. we have to do de-radicalization work, we have to go into the milieu, we have to drain these habitats, and we have to find the reasons why it drives people into the clutches of these terrorists. we must win this battle!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is now cuba's most important trading partner, with trade worth around €2 billion last year. the united states is now seizing the opportunity to re-establish diplomatic relations with cuba. the united states does not display our european agility when it comes to entering new markets, but moves very quickly and unbureaucratically. it's good to see cuba open up. however, it took six years for the union to be given a mandate in the first place, from the start of the negotiations in 2008 until 2014. but we europeans have a very important task to ensure that, in addition to respect for human rights in cuba, the positive achievements of cuba, such as education and health care, will also be preserved in view of the forthcoming opening of markets to the united states. cuba therefore needs a strong european component, a strong european support in building a free society with a social market economy. i hope for a free, democratic cuba, linked to european values. i believe in cuba and the cuban people, in a free and social country which shares the democratic values of europe.
i have to say, madam president, the human rights report should be more than an annual exercise, and it is because the european union is one of the few global players for which human rights are at the centre, through the special representative stavros lambrinidis, through the framework of the very successful human rights dialogues that we have been able to extend, through myanmar for example, which i hope iran will soon join, through the work of our delegations, where human rights are at the centre of the work. sometimes i wish that this emphasis on human rights was not only hesitant but more intense - as in the case of azerbaijan. i think it's very important that we also focus on strengthening the work of ngos, and expanding the dwindling space that ngos have globally today. ngos are our natural allies.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next point on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu’s role in the middle east peace process (2015/2685(rsp)). i have switched to english because we are going to have a vote. the s&d group has informed me of its intention to request adjournment of this debate pursuant to rule 190(1) of the rules of procedure. i give the floor to mr boştinaru, on behalf of the s&d group, to move the request.
mr boştinaru, i think it was clear why ms mogherini was not with us. the point was just whether the debate should be held with or without her, so that was the point. you made your point clearly. the debate is postponed to some time in the autumn.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr vincent peillon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability (2014/2229 (ini)) (a8-0193/2015).
thank you, mr czarnecki. i would like to say this to you and to mrs mogherini in her defence. it is their job to speak out on various points. because you told her to shut up. it is their job to do their job and to make a public statement about it.
madam president, this saturday i will be representing this parliament on behalf of president schulz, along with tens of thousands of others, in srebrenica at the commemoration, and i will take the honour and the respect expressed to the victims today here in this parliament, and the grief and the condolences to those who have survived, with me in my heart and express it there. remembering this genocide – the greatest atrocity since the second world war – is important, and i am so glad that this parliament is doing this, and i really regret that the resolution was blocked in the un security council. that is why our resolution is even more important. peace comes only with talking about cruelties, with commemorating and with putting perpetrators on trial and in jail – and with reconciliation, of course. let me also nevertheless remember all the women who have become victims of war rape, also in the balkans, and whose grief is still not recognised all over the country. never again, it needs also to be said here, must anything similar to the genocide of srebrenica happen on this continent or elsewhere in the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you've already mentioned it. there are some cases in history which we remember very well, whether it be the chernobyl accident or, more recently, the fukushima nuclear disaster. for years and decades, these effects of radiation have been going on, and these effects have very clearly had effects on human health and on our environment. the european parliament has so far only participated in the setting of the limit values for radioactively contaminated food and feed through a consultation procedure. the report proposed by my colleague, esther herranz garcía, would change this legal basis. i would really like to express my support for this. the maximum levels of radioactivity would thus be fixed by the ordinary legislative procedure, and therefore also with the involvement of parliament, the council and the commission. it is our first duty as a house of commons to look after the interests of the citizens of europe. we do this every day in our committee. the highest quality is to be guaranteed. i think it is therefore logical that we should have a say in this important subject, in the spirit of good cooperation. i think we can all agree with the commission's experts and also with those of euratom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would really ask the members to vote for a change in the legal basis. i do not think that nuclear power stations, nuclear power stations and the like and the dangers associated with them are a matter for philosophical debate. i strongly believe that the only way to prevent the next reactor accident is to consider a complete phase-out of nuclear power.
i have to say, madam president, we agree that copyright reform is necessary. what we have on the table at the moment is absolutely out of date. almost everyone is online and on social networks every day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am particularly concerned about the exception for educational establishments such as schools, universities and libraries, and that is included in the report. another important good element that we want to give them is the ban on geo-blocking, which is also a feature of europe, of the european single market. there's been a lot of excitement about panoramic freedom in the last few days. i am saying this: i am personally in favour of unrestricted freedom of panorama. everything else is foreign to this world. but we must probably do a lot more to promote cooperation and cohesion in this house, so that this can be socially acceptable. i would like to conclude by pointing out an amendment which i am really against now, namely the introduction of a so-called right of protection of the performance of press publishers, as called for by an amendment in the house by the conservative side. such a law has already led to significant restrictions on references or linking in germany or spain in the case of news summaries. it's a huge barrier to the innovation power of the internet. that is why we should vote against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to ask if it is true that the votes will take more than two hours today and if it is not possible to postpone a vote until after the summer. two-hour vote scheduled for today!
in writing. ‒ while there are some improvements in the report, for example on parliament's attitude to private arbitration tribunals, the abolition of discriminatory rules in public procurement, the protection of public services, the previous reservations remain unchanged. that is why i am voting against the report.
in writing. - i rejected this agreement. all my previous reservations about the partnership have been cosmetically altered, but not removed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for a comprehensive and ambitious ttip. as the shadow rapporteur on the ttip opinion in the committee on industry, i have witnessed the long and difficult negotiations from the beginning and i am all the more pleased that the european parliament has today voted in favour of an ambitious and well-negotiated agreement with the usa. i also voted in favour of the compromise which provides for isds to be replaced by a new system for settling disputes between investors and nation states. the system is designed to be based on democratic principles and to ensure that foreign investors do not have more rights than domestic investors. all dispute settlement cases must be handled in a transparent manner by publicly appointed, independent judges with the possibility of appeal. this ensures that political objectives are not undermined by private interests.
in writing. ‒ the report shows purely cosmetic changes. the report uses some jargon to try to deceive the electorate about consumer protection and food quality. the report is, on the whole, a mere blur. i remain unconvinced about the agreement and have voted against it for that reason.
in writing. - i rejected this agreement. all my previous reservations about the partnership have been cosmetically altered, but not removed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ it is a technical codification of an existing convention. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol. it is merely a technical approximation and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this is a mere formality in the form of a legally necessary response to croatia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol. it is merely a technical approximation and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ it is a technical codification of an existing agreement with serbia. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this protocol is also a purely technical approximation to croatia's accession to the european union, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this is a mere formality in the form of a legally necessary response to croatia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this protocol is also a purely technical approximation to croatia's accession to the european union, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i support the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india. it cannot be to europe's disadvantage to join forces with an emerging economic power in research efforts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is a good idea to engage with one of the world's most emerging economies on joint research efforts and to find joint solutions.
in writing. ‒ india is an emerging regional power with enormous potential in research and development. i expect great benefits from cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is a good idea to engage with one of the world's most emerging economies on joint research efforts and to find joint solutions.
in writing. ‒ there is no objection to the continuation of the research agreement with the faroe islands. i vote for this continuation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as it is merely a continuation of an existing research agreement with the faroe islands and there is nothing to object to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is a report on the way forward for research with comparatively little financial resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as it is merely a continuation of an existing research agreement with the faroe islands and there is nothing to object to.
in writing. ‒ the report represents a good compromise on the remuneration of long-term shareholders. greater shareholder voice with long-term objectives, higher dividends and tax relief can bring more stability. nor is there any objection to greater transparency. unfortunately, the report has been postponed, but i support it in principle.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because it generally stands for more transparency and disclosure of profits by corporations and large companies. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because large companies need to be more transparent about their activities and the profits they make. transparency regarding taxes paid on profits and subsidies received is crucial to the confidence of shareholders and other european citizens in companies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because it generally stands for more transparency and disclosure of profits by corporations and large companies. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a market stability reserve, but i cannot support it in this form. on the one hand, the second part of the major ets reform the measures concerning the shifting of co2 emissions is still unclear, and on the other hand, the stance in the present report is not conducive to the industrial location of europe. that is why i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a market stability reserve because i think it is pointless to reject the commission's proposal. in addition, no satisfactory solution is offered for the allowances that have been deferred so far and the system of trading in allowances offered seems too opaque.
in writing. ‒ trade in these allowances could have been an effective system for reducing greenhouse gases. but at the moment it is just a system for restricting our industry, often in places which have already invested a great deal of money in environmental protection in recent years and decades. i am firmly against a 'continuation of the status quo' in the trading of certificates and a further burden on our industry. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a market stability reserve because i think it is pointless to reject the commission's proposal. in addition, no satisfactory solution is offered for the allowances which have been deferred and the system of trading in allowances offered seems too opaque.
in writing. ‒ the report makes good suggestions on how to adapt the legal situation of seafarers so that they can enjoy european labour standards on the basis of the specificities of their profession. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as this report is intended to stabilise the legal situation of seafarers and to prevent further discrimination on the basis of their profession, i have given my consent to it. in general, the report is very detailed and well-considered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it contains some positive points of view on improving the legal situation of seafarers and could indeed be of positive benefit to this profession.
in writing. ‒ as this report is intended to stabilise the legal situation of seafarers and to prevent further discrimination on the basis of their profession, i have given my consent to it. in general, the report is very detailed and well-considered.
in writing. ‒ a research agreement with switzerland is important, but iter has not yet produced much as a project. i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing inherently wrong with a research agreement with switzerland. unfortunately, the proposal on iter activities is not sufficiently precise and can therefore easily lead to misunderstandings, especially in the field of nuclear fusion. that is why i have abstained from voting here.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing inherently wrong with a research agreement with switzerland. unfortunately, the proposal on iter activities is not sufficiently precise and can therefore easily lead to misunderstandings, especially in the field of nuclear fusion. that is why i have abstained from voting here.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because in many areas it aims to centralise powers which should be the responsibility of the member states. the social partners are not to be confused with the labour market. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ despite some good proposals, the proposal tends to centralise powers which must remain the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension.
in writing. ‒ economic and employment policies are primarily a matter for the member states. the report is a further step towards unifying national competences, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ despite some good proposals, the proposal tends to centralise powers which must remain the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to prevent the mobilisation of the adaptation fund if, as in this case, the criteria are met. i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the application to use the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the applicant meets all the criteria for funding. it is particularly positive that the finnish authorities and the commission have carried out the evaluation of the application very quickly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the application to use the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the applicant meets all the criteria for funding. it is particularly positive that the finnish authorities and the commission have carried out the evaluation of the application very quickly.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the mandate for the trilogue as it is essentially a disempowerment of the nation states and calls for more powers and higher contributions from net contributors. despite some positive aspects, such as the rejection of new eu accessions, i had to reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because it does not take account of austerity measures to the extent that i would consider appropriate in the current tense situation. the report also deals with an extension of the eu's powers, which i will not agree with.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the mandate for the trilogue as it is essentially a disempowerment of the nation states and calls for more powers and higher contributions from net contributors. despite some positive aspects, such as the rejection of new eu accessions, i had to reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the 'green' label can be used to call for a lot, for example, a strengthening of the european semester, new guidelines and objectives, adjustments to tax systems, etc. i therefore reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the green jobs initiative aims to involve the european union in the tax systems of the member states. the commission has also been asked to draw up a list of the countries which will be eligible for the community's financial assistance. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is very much about national influence. the priority is to strengthen the european semester by setting specific objectives and by intervening in the tax systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the green jobs initiative aims to involve the european union in the tax systems of the member states. the commission has also been asked to draw up a list of the countries which will be eligible for the community's financial assistance. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the scheme is worth supporting as it can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this scheme because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way. it would therefore also be a deterrent for european companies wishing to establish themselves in these countries. however, the additional revenue generated for the respective countries should be earmarked.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way. it would therefore also be a deterrent for european companies which are established or intend to become established in these countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this scheme because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way. it would therefore also be a deterrent for european companies wishing to establish themselves in these countries. however, the additional revenue generated for the respective countries should be earmarked.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs pietikäinen contains good ideas on how to make the excessive use of resources more efficient and economical, but unfortunately some of the proposals are, at least for the time being, excessive. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ very good approaches, but unfortunately sometimes they turn out to be overlapping. i am also not sure how the report will develop, given the uncertain outcome of the votes on the amendments. that's why i'm advising abstinence.
in writing. ‒ while the report certainly contains some interesting aspects on how to better manage scarce resources, it seems to me too out of touch and immature as regards the possible implementation of the measures. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ although the report contains very good approaches, such as the design of a policy for sustainable food, some of the objectives are overlapping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. in the light of the fukushima disaster, there is a need for a faster way of intervening in europe, in particular through implementing acts, to re-establish maximum levels of contamination in food and feed. the role of the european parliament would also be strengthened, as it would have a say in setting new maximum levels. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant compensation to farmers whose products are contaminated by radioactive fallout. the text presented is therefore in all respects consistent and i support it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because it was urgent to revise the euratom regulation and parliament now has a say in setting the ceilings. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to radioactive substances.
in writing. ‒ nuclear power poses unpredictable risks to man and nature, which have been painfully brought to our attention only since the accident in fukushima. any approach to reduce these risks is therefore to be welcomed. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because it was urgent to revise the euratom regulation and parliament now has a say in setting the ceilings. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to radioactive substances.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution before us is full of balanced proposals for the creation of a capital markets union. in the current economic climate in particular, this would create greater dynamism in the financing sector and thus growth and employment. alternative forms of financing are necessary to restore sufficient liquidity to enterprises and to stimulate investment. but since some of the points in the report are aimed at giving more powers to emsa, which would be associated with inefficiencies for the european capital market, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this proposal. despite some good approaches and a possible revitalization of the european economy, i reject the emsa proposal and, with it, the whole proposal for the creation of a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i too believe that banks need to be regulated to avoid uncontrolled business and risks for citizens. the report also contained some good approaches in this direction. however, i have finally spoken against it because it would lead to a further restriction of national sovereignty, which i cannot call good.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this proposal. despite some good approaches and a possible revitalization of the european economy, i reject the emsa proposal and, with it, the whole proposal for the creation of a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ although there are some good proposals and demands that the eu should really take action on, i cannot agree with the report. the european union's increased control of national intelligence services, the trivialization of the causes of terrorism, all these are the reasons why i reject the text.
in writing. ‒ i could not give my consent to this proposal under any circumstances, because it is not detailed enough and contains many introductions that would make the european union a totalitarian surveillance apparatus.
in writing. ‒ the european agenda on security does not provide adequate responses to current security threats, let alone whether the eu should have the power to override national security strategies through its actions. the neutrality of austria is particularly at stake here. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i could not give my consent to this proposal under any circumstances, because it is not detailed enough and contains many introductions that would make the european union a totalitarian surveillance apparatus.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution. the situation in yemen is worrying and the condemnation is logical. it is also necessary to point out the complicity of the saudi coalition in fuelling the conflict.
in writing. ‒ the report condemns the situation in yemen and the human rights violations that are associated with it, and i therefore supported it. the report is particularly positive in that it gives the saudi coalition a role in fuelling the conflict rather than helping to bring about a settlement.
in writing. ‒ the report condemns the situation in yemen and the human rights violations that are associated with it, and i therefore supported it. the report is particularly positive in that it gives the saudi coalition a role in fuelling the conflict rather than helping to bring about a settlement.
in writing. ‒ even if the security situation in north africa and the middle east is like a powder keg which should be defused as soon as possible, i think that the content of this report is flawed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i regret that i could not agree to the motion for a resolution. the joint pursuit of is and the creation of a common foreign policy in this regard would be desirable, but i am strongly opposed to the resulting uncontrolled migration and the formation of an eu army.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not provide a sufficiently strong response to the catastrophic situation in the middle east and north africa. the numerous failed states, the advance of islamic fundamentalists, the systematic destruction of cultural heritage dating back thousands of years and the consequent mass emigration from these areas should make us aware that we can only turn the situation for the better with a massive investment of resources and not with pretty words.
in writing. ‒ the report attempts to solve the problems in the region by offering a pure stimulus, by proposing to take in more refugees in the eu, and it also includes the proposal for an eu army, which i strongly oppose. although i firmly believe that isis must be fought at all levels and that the situation in the middle east and north africa can only be resolved on the ground, i voted against this report because the solutions are the wrong ones.
in writing. ‒ the neighbourhood policy is an effective instrument of european foreign policy, which can certainly be applied and implemented more coherently. i shall abstain on this vote because the report does mention the problems but does not propose solutions.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some good points, but some points, such as more pressure on turkey, are woefully lacking. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy is a very important factor in ensuring good cooperation between the eu and neighbouring and third countries. however, i think that in some respects the notions of association and the broad political and geographical scope of the enp go too far. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ europe has a huge cultural sector, but it does not have the capacity to market it across the continent, as copyright protection is regulated in each country individually. it is therefore sensible to harmonize. i have made my approval of this report conditional on the vote on paragraph 46 on freedom of panorama. it is essential to maintain freedom of panorama, otherwise the freedoms of citizens and artists would be subject to an unjustifiable restriction. i have therefore voted in favour of the overall report, because of the freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ i can only welcome the harmonisation of copyright law in the eu member states. it was also important to me that paragraph 46 of the reda report had been omitted: had freedom of panorama been abolished or restricted, i would have had to reject the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. this parliament's own-initiative report, which sets out the problems facing european copyright law, aims to modernise and harmonise it at european level. the aim is to strike a balance between the protection of artists and the rights of consumers. i also voted to maintain the freedom of panorama, which ensures that images of works permanently in the public domain do not require the consent of the rights holders for non-commercial purposes.
in writing. ‒ the report was initially highly controversial, but was subsequently watered down in key areas. i see it as a step towards modernising our copyright laws and giving greater consideration to the creative achievements of artists and media people. i therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i have made my vote dependent on amendment no 3 and the related paragraph on freedom of panorama. although the amendment on this point was rejected, the original text was not accepted as such. i voted in favour of the report because it guarantees freedom of panorama. in my opinion, copyright is a particularly important aspect and should be protected accordingly.
in writing. ‒ while there are some good approaches in this report, there are also many points that have been inserted for reasons of political correctness. i'm not going to do it.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained because it was not possible to state clearly whether the report was supported or rejected.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i have serious doubts about the usefulness and utility of this fund. the report before us, however, is equally critical of the efd, and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy is a double-edged sword for me. on the one hand, it is certainly important to promote and improve specific aspects of democracy. on the other hand, i do not understand how a ukrainian government can be allowed to benefit from funding from this democracy fund, even though there are radical and anti-democratic parties in that government. i have abstained on these grounds.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. he strongly condemns the 29 june 2015 elections and points to the human rights violations committed by the government against protesters and opposition figures in the aftermath.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this report, as the elections in burundi on 29 june 2015 and the human rights violations committed by the government against protesters and oppositionists were to be condemned.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this report because the elections in burundi on 29 june 2015 and the human rights violations committed by the government against protesters and opposition figures are to be condemned.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report. the massacre in srebrenica 20 years ago was the worst massacre in europe since the end of the second world war and finally needs to be dealt with legally.
in writing. ‒ i would have agreed to this report, as the condemnation of the srebrenica massacre 20 years ago must be remembered. the human rights crimes of that time must not be forgotten. however, i would also like to emphasize that the report only refers unilaterally to the situation of the bosnian serbs at the time, and other ethnic groups are excluded.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because the condemnation of the srebrenica massacre 20 years ago must be remembered. the human rights crimes of that time must not be forgotten. however, i would also like to emphasize that the report refers only one-sidedly to the bosnian serbs and excludes other ethnic groups.
a writer. the commission is not cambodia is one of the most censored countries in the world. the crimes of the pol pot regime, which claimed up to three million lives, still hang over this country like a shadow. it was a long, difficult journey out of the darkness of those years to more democracy, to prosperity and to individual freedom. this has only been achieved in recent years. civil society engagement is becoming increasingly important in this country. the hun-sen regime has also been shaken by this. it is therefore very regrettable that the space for ngos and trade unions is now being systematically restricted. this is a phenomenon that we also see from other emerging markets. but it is precisely in the context of cambodia that it is necessary to do everything possible to prevent the path of cambodia's democratic recovery from being interrupted at the outset.
a writer. the commission is not the democratic republic of congo is a country of instability. human rights violations are commonplace, and the country has been busy with us here in the house, most recently in may when it came to the certification of conflict minerals, and last year when dr mukwege was awarded the sakharov human rights prize. it was a very impressive celebration. he made those connections clear. he spoke to the audience, and the people from the emigration who live here cheered him on. he said this country needed to change. that is the situation we are in. the two human rights activists are in prison, but not only them, but many others as well. we call for their release and we also call on the commission to exert the necessary pressure and use all its resources to ensure that the country has a peaceful future in the next elections in 2016.
a writer. the commission is not i'm very glad that we're finally discussing bahrain today. it's about time. we have often tried to do this because human rights are indivisible. they apply to russia, to china, to africa, to us, to our allies or so-called allies. we must be concerned about the situation in bahrain. the first is the case of nabil rajchab, who spoke to us here in parliament in the human rights committee, was then arrested and has been detained ever since - as have many others, as have hundreds of activists, such as the opposition leader sheikh ali salman, who has been detained without trial for four years. we cannot accept that, not only because human rights are universal, but also because it is a question of stability in a very unstable region. we have to see these connections, we have to point them out. i'm afraid if this situation continues, it's going to be like a pressure cooker. the longer it's heated, the sooner it'll eventually explode. it is therefore important that we now look at the respect of human rights in bahrain.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. sustainability and the responsible use of natural resources are our guiding values, but we have not followed them in the case of the previous ban on trade in seal products. i would like to take the example of greenland, where 12 million seals inhabit the waters and where the natives hunt about 150 000 animals a year. biologists estimate that even for 500,000 animals, the annual hunt would be sustainable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. for indigenous peoples in this region, only seals remain as suppliers of vitamin c and protein. so seals have been hunted by the local people for centuries, and there is no substitute for their nutritional value! and without the european union's markets, thousands of skins from this hunt have been incinerated or otherwise disposed of, and that has nothing to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the responsible use of natural resources. however, we must be careful that these animals are not hunted for commercial purposes. we should also look more closely at the baltic sea, where exceptions are also kept within limits. so i agree with greenpeace spokesman jon burgwald who said we need to significantly increase our efforts to make clear to eu consumers the differences between sustainable hunting by indigenous peoples and commercial hunting.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i could hear my predecessor expressing great concern that exceptions could always lead to something happening here that we do not want. he did, however, leave out two points for me. on the one hand, how does he envisage that we will maintain the foundations or the means of traditional food production for the indigenous peoples? we have here, i think, beyond dispute, the recognition that seal meat is for that purpose. the second is whether he would consider it wise and sustainable, as has been done so far, to burn the blankets, the skins of these animals, to dispose of them and throw them away.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all let me thank laura ferrara and the shadow rapporteurs for this very good text. let me repeat what they said, that another europe is possible, especially when it comes to rights for refugees. this continent has to be one that welcomes refugees – especially when they come from war—ridden areas like syria – and that does not throw them out or hinder them from having their rights respected. i also appreciate the approach adopted, which focuses on the institutional structure that we need to change but also on certain specific areas of human rights and of fundamental rights – on media pluralism, anti—discrimination, ethnic minorities, sexual minorities, people with disabilities and race. as rapporteur of this parliament for the equal treatment directive, i very much appreciate what vice—president timmermans said and i am optimistic that the commission and parliament will make the council go ahead and have this equal treatment directive finally become law, to make sure that the fundamental rights of all minorities are respected on this continent, and that the fight against racism, xenophobia, homophobia, lesbophobia and transphobia and all the other forms of discrimination will succeed. with that, i also have to say that the institutional structures need to change. the copenhagen dilemma is that when countries accede to the european union they have to fulfil everything, but when they are in well, big nothing! i would say to the epp that article 7(2) simply does not work. we need new mechanisms, and this report asks for new mechanisms that are automatically triggered, and for country—by—country reporting. this is not about controlling everyone: it is about safeguarding our common values to make sure that in no country of this european union are fundamental rights violated. that is what this report is about. it is about a common understanding and a common awareness. i really do wonder how madam vozemberg can speak of her report being a good alternative when that alternative means deleting pages and pages of jointly agreed text. we were there in the debates together, but now she is saying that her alternative is better. well i am sorry, but her alternative is not better, because if you do not talk about discrimination and you do not want to see it, that does not mean that it goes away. we need to address this, and that is what this report is about. this bonfire of deletions will not, i hope, find a majority tomorrow because we need to stand together to make sure that fundamental rights are safeguarded on this continent for everybody – with no exceptions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - the wife of storch! i said that the main issue now is refugees. i was really happy. mrs merkel is not from my party, and i often criticize her. but in the case when she said that in germany, refugees from syria will no longer be sent back to hungary or anywhere else, that was right and good. and i'm glad my country finally did that. we are talking about war refugees, and we need space for them, and we need support for them. but poverty refugees - how many have left europe, fled from terrible poverty in ireland, my country, germany, when times were bad? we must also help to change the structures of world trade and so on locally, so that people no longer have to flee. but if someone is fleeing from climate disasters that we have helped cause, from poverty that we have helped cause because we don't pay enough for raw materials, then you have to look at this very closely and see if these people can survive at home or not, or if they don't have a right to live with us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– sir, many refugees – and the definition of a refugee is someone coming from a warring area – do not even have passports or documents with them because they had to leave everything behind because everything was destroyed, so we really have to take care of them. i found it totally unacceptable when just recently the hungarian secretary of state said on austrian radio that muslims are not welcome in hungary because we are not used to them. would we apply the same rhetoric and say that women are not accepted on boards of companies because men are not used to them? this is simply outrageous. things like that should not happen in our common europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fundamental rights are at the heart of the european project and the annual report is a very important part of parliamentary life. it's an interesting coincidence that we're also talking about the state of the union in this plenary. and just as the state of the union is not all for the best, so too are fundamental rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very grateful for mrs ferrara's report because i think it is a really important piece of legislation, and it really points in the right direction. firstly, because it is very systematic, secondly, because it highlights current issues, such as mass surveillance and its impact on individual freedom, because it addresses the refugee situation - which is a must in times like these - and because it also addresses the impact of the economic crisis on human rights. this is very important. it's also important that it has an implementation aspect, that it also asks how to enforce this. the weakness is that we do not have the right instruments to really enforce human rights. i think it is very important that the establishment of the fundamental rights agency be mentioned positively, that it be strengthened, that a monitoring mechanism be set up, independent of day-to-day political assessments, to identify where human and fundamental rights are being violated. we also need a mechanism to enforce these fundamental rights. i think that is the most important point. i would ask all members to support this excellent report.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her initiative and for having shown the importance of family businesses in europe. europe has a very special significance here: around half of the world's top 500 family businesses are based in europe, as the scale shows. the top 10 companies in this sector generate around €100 billion of european gdp and employ 2.5 million people. overall, family businesses in europe contribute 13% of gdp and 3.2% of total employment, the companies are on average 90 years old. family businesses are much more competitive than other businesses, they are geared towards long-term success, and business takeovers - which have been mentioned today - play a very special role in this. the report also found that about 480 000 companies were acquired in europe each year. we've heard that for 150 there's probably no suitable successor. it's a big issue. the political framework must be created. equity is also a second important issue and the recognition of the structures, namely ownership of family businesses, in addition to the tax issues, framework conditions, wage costs, which are very essential for the preservation of these family structures.
i have to say, madam president, the term 'blue economy' covers all economic activities that are linked to the sea and the oceans. the interface between land and sea is a particularly important one. the blue economy generates between 3% and 5% of european gdp, employs 5.6 million people and contributes €495 million to european value creation. the report clearly addresses the interaction between land and sea, noting that land and sea data must be considered as a whole and that sustainable management is of vital interest, of vital importance, and it discusses the role of new technologies, and here we come in particular to the issue of innovation and research. the fourth point i would like to mention is investment: the report criticises the fact that horizon 2020 is designed to save money. this is particularly bad for the blue economy and, of course, for other sectors of the economy, which need to catch up. the blue economy must be supported and promoted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ this is an annex to the ilo protocol of 1930, the purpose of which is to update the definition of forced labour. particular attention is paid to new forms of forced labour, such as organised begging, sham self-employment, forced prostitution, forced labour by smugglers, or forced labour to pay off debts. it also sets out obligations to be observed by ilo signatories. these include labour inspections, due diligence procedures, and, in principle, measures to combat the roots of forced labour, with forced labour not being specified. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote, although an adjustment of the definition of 'forced labour' is more than necessary and activities such as organised begging, sham self-employment, forced prostitution and 'indentured labour' are also mentioned and condemned in the report. however, the definition of victim is too broad and many activities of illegal immigrants could simply go unpunished.
in writing. as regards the ilo convention on forced and compulsory labour, my impressions were twofold: on the one hand, the convention goes very far in some areas (e.g. in the area of the legal remedies to be introduced), on the other hand, it does not go far enough in other areas, especially in terms of effectively combating forced labour in the parts of the world where it is a common phenomenon. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote, although an adjustment of the definition of 'forced labour' is more than necessary and activities such as organised begging, sham self-employment, forced prostitution and 'indentured labour' are also mentioned and condemned in the report. however, the definition of victim is too broad and many activities of illegal immigrants could simply go unpunished.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of mr mikke's immunity so that the authorities can punish him for a traffic offence. failure to do so could cause lasting damage to the credibility and integrity of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of mr mikke, as the speeding offence is not in itself connected with the political or parliamentary activities of the member. i cannot say whether the polish prosecutor general devotes himself to other road offenders to the same extent.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of mr mikke, as the speeding offence is not in itself connected with the political or parliamentary activities of the member. i cannot say whether the polish prosecutor general devotes himself to other road offenders to the same extent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the efdd's proposal to reject the council's position, as the original report contains a direct right of action by the commission against private companies, which amounts to a further curtailment of national competences.
in writing. ‒ as this report departs from the original council position (a direct power of enquiry of the commission against private firms and a further curtailment of national competences), i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as this report departs from the original council position (a direct power of enquiry of the commission against private firms and a further curtailment of national competences), i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ although i find the report to be in principle worth supporting with regard to the traditional creation of seal products, i abstain as the report does not sufficiently address the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
in writing. ‒ the report is a good one, but it does not take sufficient account of the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report is a good one, but it does not take sufficient account of the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because it addresses many criticisms and represents an improvement on the existing legal situation. among them: the inclusion of a ban on cloned meat in future free trade agreements, an obligation to trace cloned animals, a permanent ban on cloned meat and a ban on imports from third countries where the origin is not clearly established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is a clear no to cloning and the placing on the market of food from cloned animals. we do not need cloning technology in europe! our agricultural production, our farming methods and our food supply are working well. we don't need to rely on disease-prone copies of the gene!
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it takes up the criticisms made so far and furthermore shows an improvement in the legal situation.
in writing. i have agreed to the report because it incorporates all the criticisms i have made so far and now includes a ban on cloning for all generations and comprehensive traceability rules in the case of international agreements. furthermore, there is no longer any question of a temporary ban.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it takes up the criticisms made so far and furthermore shows an improvement in the legal situation.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report because it does not offer any realistically feasible solutions.
in writing. ‒ the report is to be rejected in its entirety, as it is in favour of legal immigration of asylum seekers, but does not contain any solutions on how to proceed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. furthermore, parties and opinions that do not conform to the asylum trend are, from a purely subjective point of view, labelled as racist, islamophobic and the like. apart from strengthening the agency for fundamental rights and lgbti rights, which should also be enshrined in law. i therefore reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ living in a european liberal democracy does not mean that we can take fundamental rights for granted. because this will be the moment those rights will be seriously at stake. the migration and humanitarian crisis, the situation of minorities, figures on violence against women and the frequent hate speeches are affecting eu citizen’s everyday life. i would like to mention also the terrorism challenge we are facing: the respect of fundamental rights and freedom has to be fully incorporated into the internal security strategy of the eu and this is not negotiable. therefore, the annual report on fundamental rights is an important assessment and should be considered as the base for our future work. not only the european parliament, but also the commission should act on this and start to use all the existing mechanisms provided by the treaties to ensure that the institutions and the member states fully comply with the charter of fundamental rights when applying eu legislation.
in writing. i reject this report because, while it advocates legal immigration of asylum seekers, it does not offer any solutions on how to proceed with a further procedure. in addition, parties and opinions that do not conform to the so-called 'asylum trend', but rather try to address legitimate fears and concerns of citizens, are called racist.
in writing. ‒ the report is to be rejected in its entirety, as it is in favour of legal immigration of asylum seekers, but does not contain any solutions on how to proceed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. furthermore, parties and opinions that do not conform to the asylum trend are, from a purely subjective point of view, labelled as racist, islamophobic and the like. apart from strengthening the agency for fundamental rights and lgbti rights, which should also be enshrined in law. i therefore reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this report. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid.
in writing. ‒ in general, the report makes good suggestions for improving the way hearings are conducted. but it is possible to make it compulsory to vote in committees. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. this report contains very good suggestions on how to improve the processes at hearings. but it is possible to make it compulsory to vote in committees. i have therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ in general, the report makes good suggestions for improving the way hearings are conducted. but it is possible to make it compulsory to vote in committees. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the proposals on the nexus between human rights and technology are forward-looking and offer great opportunities to improve the living conditions of people in third countries in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ since the report on human rights and technology in third countries is against both any form of illegal surveillance, in particular mass surveillance, and the transfer of data, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i too believe that eu technologies should not be used for human rights abuses. technology today offers limitless possibilities, but it must not violate human rights and document data of individuals without their consent. people can be filmed or listened to with cameras and microphones without being aware of it. the report calls for more transparency and accountability, which is why i support it.
in writing. ‒ since the report on human rights and technology in third countries is opposed to both any form of illegal surveillance, in particular mass surveillance, and the transfer of data, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the report by mrs schaake has been fully adopted and that we have reached a common consensus across the political groups. the paper underscores our demand that privacy should remain private and that government surveillance measures should not restrict freedom of expression and thus a fundamental human right. the commission is now called upon to strengthen democratic control of intelligence and security services in its dialogue with third countries. the european parliament is firmly opposed to the increasing number of violations of the right to privacy, which are being used as a cover for security and anti-terrorism measures, and to the limitation of the scope of action of human rights organisations. the respect of fundamental rights is a fundamental part of a successful counter-terrorism strategy. i am particularly pleased that we have agreed on the international protection of whistleblowers and that we want to recognise internet access as a human right. i therefore voted in favour of this report with the greatest conviction.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises that many of the failures in current agricultural support are due to the complexity of the system. this often makes it difficult to distinguish between errors and fraud, and therefore there is a risk of innocently targeting farmers. the report avoids putting farmers under general suspicion, stresses the importance of agriculture to europe's economic well-being, but also points out that controls are important to avoid fraud, simplification is necessary to avoid unintentional errors by farmers and best practices in allocation, handling and verification should be shared. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises that many errors in current agricultural support are due to the complexity of the system, making it difficult to distinguish between errors and fraud. it avoids casting general suspicion on farmers, stresses the importance of agriculture to europe's economic well-being, but also points out that controls are important to avoid fraud, simplification is necessary to avoid unintentional errors by farmers and best practices in allocation, handling and verification should be shared. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. this report makes it clear that many of the errors in current agricultural support are due to the complexity of the system. furthermore, it is becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish between mistakes and fraud. agriculture is very important for the economic well-being of europe. another important area is the implementation of checks to prevent fraud. the simplification of bureaucracy is also important, so that farmers do not make unintentional mistakes. it is on these grounds that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises that many errors in current agricultural support are due to the complexity of the system, making it difficult to distinguish between errors and fraud. it avoids casting general suspicion on farmers, stresses the importance of agriculture to europe's economic well-being, but also points out that controls are important to avoid fraud, simplification is necessary to avoid unintentional errors by farmers and best practices in allocation, handling and verification should be shared. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are an important backbone of the european economy. the report provides a comprehensive overview of the specific challenges faced by family businesses and suggests solutions to improve the business environment. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are an important backbone of the european economy, and the report addresses their specific challenges with many solutions. however, it is important to be careful that family business in the classic sense is not used as a cover for large multinational groups to obtain subsidies, tax advantages, etc. (e.g. vw, roche, arcelor mittal, who really do not need subsidies). but the advantages outweigh the disadvantages, and that is why i agree with you.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report 'family businesses in europe'. the adoption of this report is an important step towards improving the conditions for family businesses in europe. more than 60% of all businesses in the eu are family-run and these make an important contribution to the revitalization of the european economy and to job creation. they are often more long-term oriented than other companies and strongly rooted in their location and environment. nevertheless, family businesses face a number of problems and difficulties, most notably the question of succession to the top management. this is where policy is needed and where the right framework must be created, particularly in the areas of inheritance, gift, corporate taxation and transfer of shares in companies. the report voted on today is intended to help find lasting solutions at european level, without compromising the sovereignty of the member states.
family businesses are an important backbone of the european economy, and the report addresses their specific challenges with many solutions. i believe that family businesses must be encouraged, and that is why i voted in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are an important backbone of the european economy, and the report addresses their specific challenges with many solutions. however, it is important to be careful that family business in the classic sense is not used as a cover for large multinational groups to obtain subsidies, tax advantages, etc. (e.g. vw, roche, arcelor mittal, who really do not need subsidies). but the advantages outweigh the disadvantages, and that is why i agree with you.
in writing. ‒ although the report raises the right issues, the proposed measures are designed to give the commission more say, establish more quotas, spend more european and public money on different projects and exploit the potential of the blue economy through more planning. for these reasons i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ although the report raises the right issues, the proposed measures are designed to give the commission more powers of decision, to establish more quotas, to spend more european and public money on a wide range of projects and to seek the salvation of the blue economy in a greater role for the state. i therefore reject this proposal.
in writing. in principle, the report discusses the right issues, but the measures proposed are designed to give the commission more power of decision, to establish more quotas, to spend more european and public money on various projects and to seek the salvation of the economy in a greater role of the state. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ although the report raises the right issues, the proposed measures are designed to give the commission more powers of decision, to establish more quotas, to spend more european and public money on a wide range of projects and to seek the salvation of the blue economy in a greater role for the state. i therefore reject this proposal.
in writing. ‒ promoting entrepreneurship in education is an important step towards an innovative and competitive europe, where young entrepreneurs and established companies have a place and can compete for the best ideas. i approve the report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater cooperation between member states and entrepreneurs to raise awareness of entrepreneurship through a coordinated approach in the education system. the report stresses that the erasmus programme should promote young entrepreneurship. this proposal is worth supporting in itself.
in writing. i think it makes a lot of sense to support young people and encourage entrepreneurial thinking. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater cooperation between member states and entrepreneurs to raise awareness of entrepreneurship through a coordinated approach in the education system. the report stresses that the erasmus programme should promote young entrepreneurship. this proposal is worth supporting in itself.
in writing. ‒ europe's cultural heritage is one of the most diverse in the world and needs to be better known and promoted. i shall abstain on this point because of the calls for more resources and the tendency not to preserve diversity but to make approximations.
in writing. ‒ even if we want to expand cooperation in tourism, unfortunately there are some points that are not worth supporting. the aim is to launch the european year of cultural heritage in 2018 and to provide sufficient funding to raise awareness of european cultural heritage among young people. i think it is a waste of money and should therefore be rejected.
in writing. the european year of cultural heritage is to be launched in 2018 and will be sufficiently budgeted to raise awareness of european cultural heritage among young people. otherwise, it is a complete waste of money. the report is a good idea in principle, but it is questionable to what projects the funds are being used. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ even if we want to expand cooperation in tourism, unfortunately there are some points that are not worth supporting. the aim is to launch the european year of cultural heritage in 2018 and to provide sufficient funding to raise awareness of european cultural heritage among young people. i think it is a waste of money and should therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this report is a good sign that european citizens' initiatives can make a difference and must be taken seriously. he is clearly against privatisation of water supply and does not consider water as a commodity for profit maximisation. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as i am against the privatisation of water supply in the eu, in favour of cost recovery and against any profit maximisation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained today, contrary to my usual clear decisions. i support the principle of the citizens' initiative for a 'right to water' and would therefore agree. the demands for re-nationalization and a ban on public-private partnerships in this area are, however, things that go too far for me. i was therefore unable to give my consent. the logical consequence of this is my abstinence today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that water supply in the eu should not be privatised. the report also contains many positive aspects which i am happy to support.
in writing. as i am against the privatisation of water supply in the eu, i am in favour of cost recovery and i am against any profit maximisation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the general budget of the council for the financial year 2016 shall be eur 142,12 billion for payments and eur 153,27 billion for commitments. this represents a reduction of 1% and 0.15% respectively compared with the commission's budget. the member states' budgets, based on a general target of 4% reduction since 2013, are characterised by sometimes massive cuts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. another 500 million in emergency aid for dairy farmers affected by the abolition of the milk quota and by the russian sanctions, in addition to the 50 billion in annual subsidies. the council's budget provides for a 22.5% increase in the budget for external action, while the budget for programmes to increase competitiveness is only 8.6%. the funding for horizon 2020 is even being cut, a measure which is counterproductive because it is anti-growth. the council is therefore putting the brakes on the budget and at the same time giving the gas to draw a striking comparison. this does not increase the credibility of the budget nor ensure its sustainability.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are facing the greatest political challenge of the next few years. i think that this is still underestimated and seen too much as a technical problem. but we're not talking about numbers, we're talking about people -- people like you and me, not people of another category. it's only because the politicians didn't want to deal with the issue for a long time that this chaos has arisen. this has to stop! it is therefore necessary to remind our heads of state of five basic principles. first, the fundamental rights. the debate on categories such as migrants, refugees and asylum seekers is always about people. every person, whether registered or not, has at all times fundamental human rights such as the right to dignity and the right to life. secondly, the european peace project. the instability in the middle east in particular must also remind us of the value of european integration. only because of this can we now live in peace, prosperity and security. from this position of safety, we can help other people. third, the building of walls. viktor orbán is not the only one who is currently building fences. other politicians, like david cameron, also set up boundaries, even if they are not barbed wire. the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall has clearly reminded us that such boundaries are a sign of impotence and not a real solution. the underlying causes cannot be eliminated by isolation. fourth, the power of numbers. we need serious figures to have a serious discussion. the populist numbers game with exaggerated arrivals and multiple counts distorts the discussion and only benefits the fear mongers. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the refugee problem is a pan-european issue. the border issue must be linked to a strong security and foreign policy. open internal borders and stable external borders also require an active common european foreign policy. the values that make europe great, respect for human rights and the humanitarian dimension, play a crucial role in this. at the moment, people are very helpful, but if the politicians continue to bury their heads in the sand, that will change.
i have to say, madam president, three points: this decision tomorrow is important, it is overdue, it is a sign of recognition of what countries like greece, italy and other neighbouring countries have done. but he's a drop in the bucket. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we know very well that dublin is dead and we need a permanent mechanism to replace dublin. the european parliament must be involved in this work. it cannot be as it has been in the past, that we are merely listened to, but we want to speak, especially because we have seen what happens when we leave it to the council: nothing comes of it. and the big problem is we're running out of time. we have a good foundation. we decided in april to lay a good foundation and we cannot afford to lose time. we have come through a summer of disappointment, with problems that have not been solved, with uncertainties that have increased and people becoming increasingly disillusioned with europe. and thirdly, there are short-term problems: there are tens of thousands of people on this balkan route. nobody does anything for them. they're exposed to the elements. i was in idomeni and gevgelija myself and saw it. the mafia is infiltrating this whole establishment, and i think, commissioner, it's necessary that you do something, quickly and immediately. it's not about the big bucks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague ska keller for this report. it is a really good proposal and i am glad that it now has a majority in this house. i also think it is good that commission president juncker will propose tomorrow to take in another 120 000 refugees here and to distribute them also in the european union. but that won't be enough. four million people live in refugee camps in the region, and millions are on the run inside syria itself. so what we need is a system - the dublin system is no longer working, it needs to be replaced by a solidarity system - legal admissions and a binding distribution of refugees. and you have to meet refugees on an equal footing. as in the past week, many sectors of the civilian population in austria, germany, but also in hungary, have asked what they need and have helped them to move on. that's what we need: legal channels, meeting refugees on an equal footing, and certainly opening something like embassies on the ground to make those legal channels possible.
the commission has already done so. although we are looking forward to president juncker's proposals tomorrow, i do not think that the debate on the keller report is out of date, because we can build on it the developments that are to take place in the coming months. i would like to make a few points. for example, it is clear that it is not unimportant for the european parliament to support the proposals for a binding quota system by a large majority. secondly, we can expect that the quotas - fair quotas - will be respected and not arbitrarily chosen by the migrants to go to the country they want. i also believe that the burden of those countries must be shared fairly. it is austria, for example, which has a disproportionately greater burden than italy, even if the public image is different. i would like to say that, while i respect the report by mrs keller, i also respect the work of the commission, which has done a very good and dedicated job in the last weeks and months. i also think that the absence of the council is almost equivalent to the cynicism which has also been shown in the budget cuts of hundreds of millions of euros in neighbourhood aid which i have become aware of. i am sure that tomorrow everyone will know that the governments of europe are guilty of failing to implement the commission's proposals in a targeted manner.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission is not alone. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu policies and urban policy are not two little gardens of roses that exist side by side. no, it is increasingly important to ensure greater coherence of eu policies with an impact on europe's cities. as rapporteur kerstin westphal has already said, 72% of europe's citizens live in cities and urban areas. two thirds of gdp is generated in cities: that is three call signs for the commission's work! in view of the major economic, social and humanitarian challenges facing europe, it is important to address them where they arise, in europe's cities, in urban areas. this is why it is so important to involve the representatives of the cities themselves in all eu policy-making. from the employment point of view, i would ask the commission to examine the possibility of greater budgetary flexibility for cities, particularly in relation to public spending to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment, poverty and social investment. we see that not all the means of combating youth unemployment are being used. why not, for example, consider making these funds available directly to the cities, directly for projects, instead of having the money more or less wasted, as i say in viennese? a future eu urban agenda should also address the issue of combating gender discrimination and include the promotion of equal opportunities. i'm thinking about gender budgeting. i am sure that the commission will be able to give you some good examples of this, and that it will be worthwhile to analyse them at european level. and that is why i am asking the commission to set up a network for the exchange of best practice examples on gender budgeting.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the urban agenda is a very important signal for the upgrading of cities and it takes account of the increasing importance of cities, as my predecessors have already said. and it's high time, because cities are engines of social, economic and sustainable development. now, nice words should be followed very quickly by deeds. on the one hand, as mrs westphal has already said, the institutional upgrading of cities in the institutional framework, but also a greater consideration of eu policies in general for the real problems of cities, must also be actively supported. i admit that we greens would have preferred a broader approach to the report, for example, as mrs regner has already mentioned, to include a gender perspective, but also to look more closely at real challenges - for example, one of the central issues facing cities, namely their financial capacity to act. i come from vienna, one of the richest cities in the world, as does mrs regner. and vienna is also feeling the effects of the stability and growth pact massively and is finding it increasingly difficult to meet the active challenges, such as rising unemployment, the working poor, poverty, even by investing. we must look at this and see that eu policies actually support cities and do not create new problems here. the commission is now on the move to take up this strong signal from the european parliament and to bring the urban agenda to life. and we are all called to follow those words with action. (the speaker declined to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have already adopted a joint resolution on competition rules and the market arrangements for the professions in 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. however, the professional image will face new challenges, especially in times of digitalisation and globalisation. but we are certain that the professions generally have academic training and a high level of qualification. they are independent, self-responsible, impartial and neutral, and they don't care about anything. they provide a universal service and are not to be confused with the commercial professions. they provide universal services to all citizens in all regions at competitive prices. so when we talk about regulation, we have to say that we need rules that guarantee freedom, independence and security. the professions do not need too many rules. they must be able to work independently and freely.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president juncker, i would like to thank you for your honesty. it is indeed time for honesty, and it is indeed time for more europe. the refugee question will become a test for us europeans. if we don't, we could lose everything. but there is much to be gained! and i am grateful to you for not reducing the issue to a mere discussion of quotas, for acknowledging the contribution of the countries of the middle east. they want to be honest, and i want to be honest, because we are not doing enough for these countries. we need more resources, we need better cooperation. and it is not enough to point out the hotspots that are coming up. at present, tens of thousands of people are travelling under the open sky on the balkan route. if it rains, as is forecast for today, there could be major disasters for these people, so please act! and i think it would be very important to support also those countries like serbia, which have taken an exemplary role here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, they've invested a lot in awareness raising. where we come from, who we are, where we're going. it was right and necessary. the idea of europe, the political project of the european union, is our programme of work. national egoism, discouragement, lack of sincerity, contradiction of word and deed, lack of determination are our problems. it is up to us, if we think about it and want to, to overcome all the challenges we have mentioned. and we are seeing signs of encouragement and hope in many countries now, with successful cooperation between civil society, ngos and serious public participation. the waves of refugees, greece, hunger are facts. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past.
mr president, mr president of the commission! i must confess i was impressed by most of your speech today. i am not talking about the part on ttip, because we greens disagree, and that is why we have to stop ttip. but the bulk of your speech, the long first part about solidarity with refugees and that member states must finally act now, deserves respect. it was clear that you are serious about the fact that, as you said, it is abnormal to reduce development cooperation and not increase it, that you are serious about the fact that we have the financial and material possibilities to help those who flee from war, and that you are serious about the fact that asylum seekers and asylum seekers are allowed to work and earn money from the first day of their application. as head of government, you didn't want that. i hope other heads of government will now follow you. but we need a president of the council who is sitting here with us when this is being discussed, and not a president of the council who is putting the brakes on the governments, but one who is actually pushing forward a europe of solidarity with you, with the whole commission and with us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not a question. we are debating, ultimately, how and where to help these people, and there are two concepts. there is the concept of the united left, which includes the social democrats, the greens, the conservatives, yes, the communists. and there's another concept. and their concept is to bring everyone in. they don't ask if they're refugees under the geneva convention, if they're illegal immigrants, if they're economic opportunists or even fighters for the islamic state. they say bring everyone in. we, the patriotic freedom parties, say that we must shape this protection and this aid on the arabian peninsula ourselves. we need to establish first-aid centres there according to unhcr standards. the european union has already thought about this. we need to create safe zones. we must involve the gulf states in this whole thing to help their islamic brothers. and the united states of america, which bears a great deal of responsibility for what happened there. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which includes a renaming of the delegation with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. this can be an important step towards the recognition of palestine.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because it clearly sets out the problems of financing fishing activities in this country and opens up opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i support the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau. sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because it clearly sets out the problems of financing fishing activities in this country and opens up opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i support the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau. sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it does not take sufficient account of the possibilities for european fisheries off the cape verdean islands.
in writing. i voted against this recommendation because i think it does not give a good overview of the real significance of the fisheries agreement with the republic of cape verde. the main aspects of regional specificities and differences compared to other fisheries agreements are not taken into account or are reproduced in incomplete form.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because it provides a sufficient boost to the opportunities for european fisheries in these waters.
in writing. i support the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and cape verde. sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the fisheries partnership agreement between cape verde and the eu, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures and does not neglect the socio-economic perspective. i think both parties can benefit greatly from each other's work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because it provides a sufficient boost to the opportunities for european fisheries in these waters.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the madagascar-eu fisheries partnership agreement, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures, such as the protection of endangered species, and does not neglect the socioeconomic aspect, such as the recruitment of local seafarers, which in turn creates jobs in the region. i think both parties can benefit greatly from each other's work.
i support the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and madagascar. sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development, which is still strongly based on the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the madagascar-eu fisheries partnership agreement, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures, such as the protection of endangered species, and does not neglect the socioeconomic aspect, such as the recruitment of local seafarers, which in turn creates jobs in the region. i think both parties can benefit greatly from each other's work.
in writing. ‒ this report is a useful complement to improve the position of developing countries in the world economy with little financial effort.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to keep the door open for customs relief for developing countries. it also contains useful proposals to improve the position of developing countries in the international economic structure. the motion must therefore be supported.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is a useful addition to the report. this is a small financial burden which should improve the position of developing countries in the world economy.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to keep the door open for customs relief for developing countries. it also contains useful proposals to improve the position of developing countries in the international economic structure. the motion must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report is a useful complement to improve the position of developing countries in the world economy with little financial effort.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to keep the door open for customs relief for developing countries. it also contains useful proposals to improve the position of developing countries in the international economic structure. the motion must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to keep the door open for customs relief for developing countries. it also contains useful proposals to improve the position of developing countries in the international economic structure. the motion must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the aim is to make better use of waterways for the transport of goods, and the budapest convention provides an acceptable framework for this.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways is also of great interest and importance for austria, since it clearly deals with and regulates, among other things, important points for this area, such as the regulation on cargo documents, the liability of the consignor in the absence of fault or the liability of the carrier. i have voted in favour of this resolution because austria clearly benefits from this treaty in the field of danube shipping.
in writing. i agreed to the proposal because i am convinced (especially from my experience in my home town of linz) that inland waterway transport plays a role that cannot be underestimated in the modern economy. the promotion of these roads is therefore of great importance, especially in times of congestion on roads and motorways. legal certainty plays an important role in the attractiveness of this means of transport and is reinforced by the present proposal for the ratification of the budapest convention.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways is also of great interest and importance for austria, since it clearly deals with and regulates, among other things, important points for this area, such as the regulation on cargo documents, the liability of the consignor in the absence of fault or the liability of the carrier. i have voted in favour of this resolution because austria clearly benefits from this treaty in the field of danube shipping.
in writing. ‒ since this report advocates a common european asylum policy with a refugee quota, i cannot agree with it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for a common european asylum policy and a mandatory refugee quota. it also stresses that social and cultural ties can also lead to the pooling of asylum seekers in the respective member states. in the case of emergency resettlement, the commission would decide which member state should take in the asylum seeker. it is therefore to be rejected outright!
in writing. the proposal calls for a common european asylum policy and a refugee quota. it also emphasises that social and cultural ties can also lead to the bringing together of asylum seekers. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for a common european asylum policy and a mandatory refugee quota. it also stresses that social and cultural ties can also lead to the pooling of asylum seekers in the respective member states. in the case of emergency resettlement, the commission would decide which member state should take in the asylum seeker. it is therefore to be rejected outright!
in writing. ‒ the report does not contain any reasoning or constructive suggestions on how the eu should respond to increasing urbanisation and what the legal basis is subsidiarity . i shall vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's rather weak report fails to explain why and how the eu should respond to increasing urbanisation in detail. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. unfortunately, the rapporteur is unable to indicate in the report what the content is. the report also does not give any details of how the european union should respond to the increase in urbanisation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's rather weak report fails to explain why and how the eu should respond to increasing urbanisation in detail. the report must therefore be rejected.
madam president, we have a choice in the middle east, and the choice as i see it is that we can continue to observe the situation as it deteriorates day by day, or we can act – and i am glad, madam high commissioner, that you are choosing the latter. with every year that has passed, the state of the region has got worse. that applies to the israeli-palestinian conflict, the aftermath of the war in iraq, and the blood-letting in syria. even now, when we are confronted with the results of our inaction – thousands and thousands of refugees from the area – we seem to be paralysed. so it must be obvious to all of us: not engaging ourselves will not end the crisis. but what can we do? i totally agree with you: we must bring together the main actors – those on the front lines and those pulling the strings from afar – and discuss how to terminate the conflict. i know this is easier said than done, but not even trying will not bring any results. the european union has the power; now is the time to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union's indecision is creating a dangerous power vacuum in the middle east, as a well-known german newspaper predicted two and a half years ago. and today, the fruits of that disastrous foreign policy will be reaped. the tragic record of some 4 million refugees from the syrian conflict is the highlight. the european union's foreign policy has unfortunately proved incapable of responding decisively to crises. and i am not making any criticism of mrs mogherini today. she's not to blame for these past mistakes. we made the mistake of giving other countries guidelines according to our european standards, interfering in internal affairs, which ultimately led to the destabilisation of entire regions. we have created, or helped to create, situations in which far more people are suffering and dying than under previous regimes. we must now recognize the importance of the middle east and the middle east to our own security and stability. ladies and gentlemen, with such a foreign policy europe will certainly not be taken seriously, we must have a different foreign policy here. i would like to make a very urgent appeal to mrs mogherini, otherwise we will remain what we are, a ridiculous figure in the eyes of our international partners.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was in minsk in july this year and i get the impression that it would certainly not hurt some of my colleagues to do this for a while. i met with a wide range of political and business representatives. what you see on the ground is a lot of uncertainty. the uncertainty is not only due to the geographical situation of this country, but also to the different directions in which it is moving. firstly, it is moving towards our large neighbour to the east, which is one of our largest economic partners and, as we know, is not always easy to assess. on the other hand, there is great uncertainty also with regard to our neighbour in the west, who, in part, has put himself in a situation which is worrying because it is being controlled by others, and who is already hurting himself more than anyone else with the sanctions. so the situation on the ground is not easy for the political leaders in minsk. i can tell you one thing: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. in any case, as the high representative has said today, i welcome our re-approaching belarus and the opening of dialogue with this important country at such an important juncture on this continent. other countries should follow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the nuclear agreement with iran is certainly a milestone towards the normalisation of our relations with tehran. iran has agreed to the extent that it is prepared to allow inspections of its entire nuclear infrastructure at any time and, in justified cases, even of its military installations. iran has demonstrated that there are forces there who are very interested in de-escalation and peace. the negotiations of recent years have created a climate of trust and respect which can make it possible to include iran in a strategy for stabilizing the middle east, and in doing so, of course, to guarantee the right to life of every state in the region. we must therefore rethink our foreign policy, not only in relation to iran, but also in relation to our own european interests, and not always play the role of america's little brother.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i gave my first speech in this house in january of 2012, it was about iran, it was about sanctions. i took a position at the time against including a military option in our resolution. a lot has changed since then. those who said that we could try to soften positions by means of dialogue, dialogue and diplomacy, as in the case of eastern policy, have been vindicated. so not deterrence, but change by approach. we have also often debated in this house whether we should make a trip to iran as a delegation of the european parliament. we finally did it after a lot of back and forth. i'm very glad that this nuclear issue is resolved, because that was the gordian knot, so to speak. i would like to thank the high representative for her diplomatic skills. the door is open, but a new chapter in relations between europe and iran has not yet begun. it's not surprising after 30 years of isolation. this process is full of opportunities and full of risks. we've talked a lot about the risks today, but there are also opportunities. there are common security interests in the region, there is the organized crime of drug crime which we must combat together, there are economic opportunities, and above all there are opportunities in scientific cooperation. the first woman to win a nobel prize in mathematics was an iranian. so, these chances are there. but i also believe that we must address the question of human rights in all openness, and i hope that very soon we will be able to congratulate the two sakharov prize winners, nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi, in person in this house. it would also be a breakthrough in relations with iran.
mr president, let me first join all those who congratulated mrs mogherini and catherine ashton for their contribution in resolving this difficult issue of the nuclear deal with iran. i followed the topic as a journalist at the iaea in vienna from the beginning of 2002 or 2003, although, of course, it goes back much further than that: the difficulties in bringing all these parties to the table have their roots in the events of 1979 – the revolution in iran and the mistrust that followed. now, with the negotiations over and the passing of the treaty in the us congress almost assured, we have to look ahead. how can we in europe use the newfound rapprochement to involve iran in resolving the many crises in the middle east? it is my hope that the nuclear deal was just the beginning. i know there are parties in the region which will oppose a stronger role for iran, but without its inclusion we will move even further away from any resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to say at the outset that we are not used to having the council representative here at this late hour, especially at this important debate on the labour market. that's why you're welcome here at this hour. a competitive labour market. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. it sounds to me as if social dumping, precarious employment, the whole range of things we know - zero-hour contracts and so on and so forth - are the panacea for making the labour market competitive. i know of countries - and these are certainly the wealthier countries in the european union - where it has already become a system that wages are not enough, that is, that taxpayers must eventually pay for people to live on their income. this is absurd! this is not competition, it is unfair competition and it has no place in the european union. the free movement of workers and mobility are of course important principles which we must defend. but the mobility of workers is an instrument in our internal market which can be used by workers, which is supposed to bring them an advantage, but which does not have to be used. and it is up to us to do everything we can here to create jobs for people wherever they live, and not just to drive them wildly around the area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. president juncker said yesterday that the european union is not in a good position. but where would we be if we did not have this european union? and this is of course also true of our legislation, which must be monitored and implemented. the report is therefore not technical, but it is about compliance: what is actually being complied with? what we are seeing, however, is that social issues are being pushed aside in the implementation. we see that while fundamental and human rights exist in the european union, they are not sufficiently respected in this crisis situation. and that is, of course, a major merit that the rapporteur has drawn attention to. the commission is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties. we are now seeing the encroachment on basic rights, like the human right to housing, health care, social security. however, citizens expect a simple, predictable, effective and reliable regulatory framework. it is clear to me that eu legislation must be formulated as simply as possible and as detailed as necessary. social, environmental and consumer protection standards must not be weakened under the pretext of cutting red tape. and the question of whether legislation is good and of high quality should not be linked to questions of cost, but to whether it can also fulfil its purpose in a lasting way and for the benefit of citizens and workers.
author.– mr president, in the eastern partnership azerbaijan has unfortunately become the country with the worst human rights record. even belarus has recently released six political prisoners. so, given that human rights are, and must be, at the core of relations of the european union with third countries, we need to stand up together for those who defend human rights, the rule of law and the freedom of the media. we cannot have double standards, for example countries that have oil and gas and others that do not. this resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it also welcomes that the azeri authorities have allowed a medical team to visit leyla and arif yunus. on tuesday, the un commissioner for human rights also criticised the ongoing crackdown on civil rights and independent voices in azerbaijan and called for their immediate release. let me also – and i hope the azeri authorities will also read this and listen to it – say one last sentence. this resolution also demands that all european court of human rights rulings need to be complied with, including that of 16 june 2015, which confirms armenia’s responsibility for the occupation and military presence in the territories of azerbaijan.
a writer. the commission has already done so. azerbaijan is not our first guest here, it is a regular guest. azerbaijan would like to be part of europe. it has hosted the european olympic games with great pomp this year. we are bound by economic interests with azerbaijan, and economic interests are always mutual. in such a situation we have the right to ask to what extent azerbaijan intends to respect the rule of law, to what extent azerbaijan intends to respect human rights. finally, as a member of the council of europe, you have signed the european convention on human rights. it is sad and shocking that azerbaijan regularly erases all our concerns from the table. this is unacceptable. the situation is very serious - we will hear about some cases - and i believe that we must not relax in the interests of human rights in azerbaijan, but also in the interests of europe.
mr president, two things: firstly, as far as i understand it, changes to the agenda are not possible at this moment, according to the services. this is what i heard before, because i had heard that the ppe wants to postpone the vote. secondly, the ppe was part of the shadow negotiations, so it would have been possible to take things out, there are split votes on several issues, so postponing it now is not possible. you can try oral amendments but not anything else. my group is against postponing the vote and also against taking things out now which, as i understand it, is only possible via an oral amendment.
in writing. ‒ the report argues in keynesian fashion that the best way to offset growth declines is by increasing transfers to brussels. i reject a central keynesian control of demand and therefore also the report.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates that growth gaps be offset by increased use of funds from brussels. problems such as late payments, etc. are not addressed, central demand management from brussels is rejected. the call to the member states to ensure coherence between national programmes and cohesion policy must also be rejected, just as my report as a whole is rejected.
in writing. i have spoken against this report because this report calls on the member states to ensure coherence between national programmes and cohesion policy. i call for an improvement in the effectiveness of cohesion policy and a higher quality of spending.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates that growth gaps be offset by increased use of funds from brussels. problems such as late payments, etc. are not addressed, central demand management from brussels is rejected. the call for the member states to ensure coherence between national programmes and cohesion policy must also be rejected, just as my report as a whole is rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report sheds light on the problems facing societies as they age, and also makes some constructive suggestions on how to promote active ageing and how to better recognise and implement the benefits of older people to society. however, the proposal to create a common european basic income is to be rejected outright. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the problems facing society with an increasing average age and makes some constructive suggestions on how to implement active ageing and recognise the benefits of older people to society; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common basic income. since paragraph 8 has been adopted, this report must be rejected.
in writing. the report addresses the problems of an ageing society. it also gives constructive suggestions on how to achieve active ageing. i miss the action and the implementation of the constructive proposals. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the problems facing society with an increasing average age and makes some constructive suggestions on how to implement active ageing and recognise the benefits of older people to society; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since paragraph 28 has been adopted, this report must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a good summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport so far and adapts proposals for action to 2015. the transport sector is the only one that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009, a problem that needs to be addressed. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ even if the ambitious amendments to reduce co2 emissions are not adopted, this report still provides a comprehensive summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper to date. the report also adapts the white paper to the year 2015. the rapporteur recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as this is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009. in addition to reducing noise in rail freight transport, the aim is to develop electric mobility, which plays a major role in the public transport system. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is adapted to the year 2015. the rapporteur also recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as it is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009.
in writing. ‒ even if the ambitious amendments to reduce co2 emissions are not adopted, this report still provides a comprehensive summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper to date. the report also adapts the white paper to the year 2015. the rapporteur recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as this is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009. in addition to reducing noise in rail freight transport, the aim is to develop electric mobility, which plays a major role in the public transport system. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the integration of women into higher education.
in writing. ‒ since science and university are the responsibility of each member state, there should be no common guidelines at eu level. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the figures provided by the european commission on the proportion of women in science show that, despite positive signs, female researchers are still under-represented, in particular in engineering, technologies and natural science. the lack of gender equality is not solely a women's problem. both studies and practice demonstrate that gender-balanced working environments deliver better-quality results. therefore, it is in the interest of the scientific sector to join us in the attempt to abolish all barriers to professional development of women to make science more inclusive.
in writing. i abstained on this report because i believe that the decision should be taken at national level and not by the eu.
in writing. ‒ since science and university are the responsibility of each member state, there should be no common guidelines at eu level. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ although this is a personal issue for me and everything must be done to promote girls in school, i believe that subsidiarity in education should be taken into account. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament should strictly respect the principles of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the member states in the field of education and not intervene, under any pretext, in school curricula with questionable arrangements on early sexualization or, more broadly, in all educational activities, whether in school or in the family, or in cultural and sporting activities. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. this report is an attack on parental education and the design of the member states' schools. the report defines the empowerment of girls through education in the european union. it is also a clear violation of the principles of subsidiarity and limited individual competence that the european union is trying to dictate to the member states how to design their curricula, their teaching materials and the training of their teachers. furthermore, children of primary school age are also charged with sensitive topics such as sexuality in general and are manipulated or unsettled by various transgender and intersex ideologies. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament should strictly respect the principles of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the member states in the field of education and not intervene, under any pretext, in school curricula with questionable arrangements on early sexualization or, more broadly, in all educational activities, whether in school or in the family, or in cultural and sporting activities. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it seeks to put pressure on switzerland, even though it is only exercising its own rights on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ as the report represents a renewed attempt to put pressure on switzerland for the assertion of sovereign rights, for example in relation to immigration control, this report should be rejected.
in writing. i have refused to approve this report because it represents a new attempt to put pressure on switzerland for exercising sovereign rights, for example in relation to immigration control.
in writing. ‒ as the report represents a renewed attempt to put pressure on switzerland for the assertion of sovereign rights, for example in relation to immigration control, this report should be rejected.
in writing. ‒ as this report calls for a single asylum system and the repeal of the dublin convention, i reject it.
in writing. ‒ the current situation regarding mass migration to the eu presents the member states with the fact that the eu is out of control and that some member states, including my own government, are not complying with the rules and laws imposed by the eu. instead of reintroducing border controls, respecting the dublin regulations, protecting the external borders and tackling the root of the problem, open borders and derogations only stimulate the problem further and do not provide a final solution. in addition, there is no clear distinction between economic migration and refugees. for this and other reasons i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to today's resolution and see it as an important step to show that the european parliament and the commission are on the same page. the council is now called upon to do what it has been doing for far too long, which is to try to avoid the problem. we are in an exceptional situation which requires the solidarity of all the member states. i also believe that we are facing the greatest political challenge of the coming years, and many people are not yet aware of this. this is no time for political hiccups. if, for example, the austrian federal government is calling for a european solution and, among other things, a european quota, then it must also be prepared to accept more refugees in a humane manner in austria. this is also true of all other countries. i would like to say, looking ahead, that i support the call by the president of the commission for the right to work for refugees and consider it an important measure. we must now provide short-term aid and plan for the long term, so that we are not faced with the next social crisis, which could also have social and security implications.
in writing. ‒ the current situation regarding mass migration to the eu presents the member states with the fact that the eu is out of control and that some member states, including my own government, are not complying with the rules and laws imposed by the eu. instead of reintroducing border controls, respecting the dublin regulations, protecting the external borders and tackling the root of the problem, open borders and derogations only stimulate the problem further and do not provide a final solution. in addition, there is no clear distinction between economic migration and refugees. for this and other reasons i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i'll hold off on my voice. the situation in the middle east is now so far advanced that no matter which side you take, the process will not progress.
in writing. ‒ the middle east peace process has long been a huge undertaking, which, in the light of regional problems, seems to be very difficult to achieve through diplomatic channels. i am certainly concerned that a lasting peaceful solution can be found in this region, and i agree with israel's settlement policy, for example. however, the resolution seems to me to be too unbalanced and does not offer a real strategy for finding solutions. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the middle east peace process has long been a huge undertaking, which, in the light of regional problems, seems to be very difficult to achieve through diplomatic channels. i am certainly concerned that a lasting peaceful solution can be found in this region, and i agree with israel's settlement policy, for example. however, the resolution seems to me to be too unbalanced and does not offer a real strategy for finding solutions. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the situation in belarus and clearly identifies the problems. i shall abstain from speaking, however, because in some areas it is too indecent and tends to become polemical.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the republic of belarus is certainly not standard from a democratic point of view and not satisfactory from a european point of view. i think that the resolution is too inappropriate in some respects. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the republic of belarus is certainly not standard from a democratic point of view and not satisfactory from a european point of view. i think that the resolution is too inappropriate in some respects. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there is no question about the importance of social entrepreneurship, but i must reject this report because it goes beyond the mark and violates the principle of subsidiarity in relation to employment policy measures.
in writing. ‒ the text praises social entrepreneurship, but does not address its benefits and importance and is partly outside its scope. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. i have refused to approve the report because it does not provide new and innovative solutions to pressing issues, particularly in the field of combating youth unemployment. instead of constantly coming up with new ideas, i am calling for clear and effective measures.
in writing. ‒ the text praises social entrepreneurship, but does not address its benefits and importance and is partly outside its scope. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the problems that arise in purely national labour markets. but the proposals for solutions are aimed at more state, although at the same time they refer to more competition and competitiveness. the report also makes little reference to the separation of national and european competences. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ while there are good points to be made about the importance of smes in and for europe, the report does highlight the problems that arise in purely national labour markets, but the solutions proposed are in a very statist tradition, although it always invokes the importance of competition, competitiveness and skills. it also does not make a clear distinction between eu and national competences, where labour market measures fall. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. i voted against the report because it risks further expansion of brussels into national competencies. the regulatory framework for the labour market in particular is for me a clear national domain.
in writing. ‒ while there are good points to be made about the importance of smes in and for europe, the report does highlight the problems that arise in purely national labour markets, but the solutions proposed are in a very statist tradition, although it always invokes the importance of competition, competitiveness and skills. it also does not make a clear distinction between eu and national competences, where labour market measures fall. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission and the council to give full access to documents to the member states. at the same time, it identifies the only problem with the implementation of eu law in the member states. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the demand for a rapid and full implementation of the geas (common european asylum system) is incompatible with the fpö's asylum line. it is also important to note that it is not the implementation of the dublin regulation that has failed, but its application. the report sees the member states as the only problem in implementing eu law, but the rapporteur calls for the commission and the council to ensure full access to documents (whether the rapporteur is referring to ttip cannot be assessed). i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. i abstained because the report does contain some criticisms which i share. however, the role and importance of smes in our economic system is not adequately presented and adequate reference is made to a possible burden, nor is the complexity of excessive regulation taken into account by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the demand for a rapid and full implementation of the geas (common european asylum system) is incompatible with the fpö's asylum line. it is also important to note that it is not the implementation of the dublin regulation that has failed, but its application. the report sees the member states as the only problem in implementing eu law, but the rapporteur calls for the commission and the council to ensure full access to documents (whether the rapporteur is referring to ttip cannot be assessed). i shall therefore abstain.
i have to say, madam president, in view of the current debate, i wonder how much chaos this european union wants to bring to our continent. what we're debating today has a history. we have been cheering here when the whole arabian peninsula has been thrown into chaos: mubarak in egypt, ben ali in tunisia, gaddafi in libya and then assad in syria. we have seen chaos created throughout the arabian peninsula, and instead of being a community of states accompanying this process and ensuring that safe zones are created in the region and that, if necessary, first reception points for refugees are created on the arabian peninsula itself, we are now calling on the entire arabian peninsula to bring these people to europe. we are talking about millions of people being brought into a continent with record unemployment, record poverty, record problems. this can't be the answer! it creates chaos in a situation where stability is needed. we do not want a quota system in austria either. we want to be in control of our own politics in our own country again. we too strongly reject what is being agreed here today.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the council, that is to say our heads of government and ministers, are still discussing the issue of 32,000 or 40,000 or 120,000 refugees to be distributed and are calling it an emergency measure. apart from the fact that these ladies and gentlemen have not yet been able to reach an agreement, this discussion has been superseded by time. we have recently received similar numbers of people from hungary seeking protection and assistance on an almost daily basis. we in this case austria, and it is fair to say that we only transferred the majority of them to germany immediately. this germany expects 800 000 refugees this year, and we are talking about a distribution of 160 000 in total. what will the citizens whom we are supposed to represent think when they hear this? we must get to the reality as quickly as possible, look ahead and make real decisions. the european parliament is ready to do so. it is time that the heads of government also realised the seriousness of the situation. there can only be a joint solution, and no state can do it alone. let's wake up and come up with a good solution together!
ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to the next speaker, let me briefly refer to something that i have just read that at the border between hungary and serbia hungary is using tear gas against refugees trying to cross the border here. let me - and i hope i am speaking on behalf of the whole house - express my criticism of this. this is not the way to protect europe's borders. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, we have had weeks of disappointment and helplessness because of the shifting of responsibility. last monday was another missed opportunity, and many chances we will not have again. maybe next monday is the last chance to do something sensible. it is about finally having a fair, solidarity-based distribution mechanism in europe, about having legal ways of entering and not forcing people into the hands of smugglers across the sea. thirdly, we need support in the countries of origin. there are countries like iraq and jordan where food rations are being cut, and we need to fix that. and i think that's where we need the money. why is it not possible to put a billion euros in place immediately to solve these things? the last point: there are currently more than 100 000 people on the balkan route. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mrs gál, i was referring to news reports from news agencies which said that hungary was using tear gas against refugees. i think tear gas is definitely not a proper way to deal with refugees. when you say they have no right to seek asylum, i think the right to asylum is an individual right.
mr borghezio, we have a practice here of allowing the floor to be taken by those members who actually took part in the debate and were present. you and a few others weren't. that is why i have given the floor only to those who have actually followed the debate. i beg your understanding.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in the last few weeks, tens of thousands of syrian refugees have entered the european union by land and applied for asylum in various european countries. the large influx of refugees has led to massive border control measures, especially in hungary, with the aim of ensuring controlled entry into the schengen area. germany and austria, on the other hand, have opened their borders to refugees, with the result that both the authorities and the national reception infrastructure are hopelessly overwhelmed. the decision of the justice and migration council to allocate 120 000 migrants to all the member states of the european union through a quota system is further proof of this overstretch and represents a complete policy failure.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the united nations world summit on sustainable development (25 to 27 september 2015) and on the development aspects of the cop 21 paris climate change follow-up conference (2015/2745 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, combating climate change is one of the key objectives in the field of sustainability and also one of the key objectives in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. europe is a pioneer in this field. the binding commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 is a leading approach. other countries are not as binding. china is committed, but not bound. the us gives guidelines, but they are not binding. in total, only 26 countries submitted national contributions to climate change mitigation for cop 21. over 140 countries have not yet submitted any contributions at all, including many developing countries and many emerging countries with very high pollution potential, such as turkey, india, brazil and indonesia. if there's $100 billion a year of funding until 2020, wouldn't it be coherent to say that the allocation of financial resources specifically to the poorest countries in the area of climate change is linked to those countries also delivering binding plans on how to eliminate climate change?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to emphasize, commissioner šefčovič, that i fully support your visit to the member states. the fact that you have not only spoken to national parliaments, but to stakeholders in the countries, is positive because it gives you a better idea of what is actually needed in the member states. i would like to wait for the legislative implementation to see whether this summer package will be a milestone in the implementation of the energy union, as you have said today. let me explain this by going into the four core elements of this summer package. the energy labelling system is being reorganised. yes, it's good when consumers have easier access, when you simplify it. but please bear in mind that there will be a price increase for the trade and for the producers and a lot more administrative burden if all this has to be done anew. this is not better regulation. one positive point is the new deal for consumers. second point of the package: if energy becomes cheaper and people consume less energy, that is a positive thing. if you put measures in place with more information, that's good. the third point is rather critical. new energy market design yes, we need this for a reorganization of the electricity market. but what it will look like then - you say public consultation now - that will be seen in the implementation. so first the consultation and then the implementation. and the ets - it has been mentioned - is really very, very bad and will lead to a huge loss of jobs in europe if it is implemented as it stands now. in austria alone, my home country, we have studies which estimate that 60,000 jobs will be lost in energy-intensive industries. and we don't want that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to have this debate with you today. i also believe that it is really time to help the farmers of europe in this very tense and difficult situation. there is a massive fear of the future in the factories. it's just not the same anymore. and the measures adopted - i agree with you - of almost 500 million euros are really very, very much money, especially in times of tight budgets. but for our farmers, it is really just a drop in the bucket. i think it is really time and very important to think about how we can secure the markets in the long term, how we can secure the operating income as well. this will be of vital importance. for example, stimulating the markets is very important, but i believe that we must also pay particular attention to trade. our colleague mairead mcguinness is working on a very important report, also on unfair trading practices, on concentration also in the trading market. we have seen it time and time again: once prices go up, it takes a very long time before they actually get passed on to farmers. if there is a difficult market situation, retail chains are the first to turn the price screws on farmers. this has got to stop!
in writing. ‒ i think that this resolution should be rejected. in many respects it aims to establish a transfer union to enable transfers within the european union which do not comply with the treaty, under the pretext of economic assistance and solidarity. there are also already concrete plans to move forward with political union and to transfer fiscal rights to brussels through the approximation of tax systems, which is not possible under the current state of the treaties. i am also against further centralisation of sovereign areas such as labour market policy or health and social policy.
in writing. ‒ this report strengthens the commission's powers, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission's proposals on migration should be implemented swiftly and without delay, and national border controls and the abolition of the schengen agreement are condemned. the banking sector and free trade agreements such as ttip are highlighted in a positive light. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report strengthens the commission's powers, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission's proposals on migration should be implemented swiftly and without delay, and national border controls and the abolition of the schengen agreement are condemned. the banking sector and free trade agreements such as ttip are highlighted in a positive light. that is why i reject this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i consider it an inadmissible interference that you, in your capacity as president, should be giving an opinion to the house, while on the other hand a debate on such an important decision is not considered possible. we have sought to have a debate on this important item on the agenda and we are now in a situation where there is a sham parliamentarism and a randomness of debate, where people who raise their hands may or may not be able to speak. it is a disgrace to european parliamentarism if a proper debate on such an important subject cannot take place here. and i can only appeal to everyone, regardless of the political views represented here, to respect the dignity of the house accordingly, to allow debate on important decisions and not to have a sham debate with hair-raising decisions, which in reality is not a debate, while in reality you are harming the house. and in substance, i would also like to say that the very decision that is being taken today, to urgently divide the wave of refugees across europe, is something that is facing massive opposition - also in this house - and is also massively contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of individual states. we should rather seek a solution as soon as possible which is geared to helping people on their home continent, and not imposing on countries by means of decisions which are not shared by the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ a europe-wide quota system and the abolition of the dublin ii agreement will not help europe in the face of the gigantic influx of refugees. the problems in the countries of origin must be solved in a lasting way. similarly, the people who are now fleeing - more than two thirds of them young men - must be given the opportunity to rebuild their homes. the proposal is also not a help to the overburdened authorities, who need more powers of intervention, quicker procedural decisions and more staff. i therefore reject the present draft.
in writing. ‒ a redistribution of illegal immigrants across the heads of member states is strongly rejected. the cost of this, which is €780 million, is unacceptable. the decision is just another invitation to economic refugees. the order is a completely misnomer for illegal immigrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i therefore rejected this decision.
in writing. ‒ a redistribution of illegal immigrants across the heads of member states is strongly rejected. the cost of this, which is €780 million, is unacceptable. the decision is just another invitation to economic refugees. the order is a completely misnomer for illegal immigrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i therefore rejected this decision.
the commission has already done so. greece is certainly affected by the financial crisis in an exceptional way. athens lacks the funds for public investment, it has massive liquidity problems. of course, in the past european structural and investment funds have been a major factor in the investment in greece - after all, at least 25% of the investment comes from these funds. the commission has therefore proposed a fast-track procedure in the context of the establishment of the framework conditions for the third greek bailout, in order to improve the liquidity situation and stimulate investment. the rapporteur for this report has joined these proposals to amend the regulation and calls for additional advances from the 2014-2020 budgetary framework for the operational programmes of the cohesion policy and the marine and fisheries fund, the so-called frontloading. secondly, it calls for an increase of the ceiling for cumulative pre-financing and interim payments for programmes under the convergence and regional competitiveness objectives in the period 2013-2017 to 100%, i.e. lifting the ceiling for payments from these programmes. the abolition of the need for cofinancing and the removal of a ceiling are intended to provide an additional eur 2 billion for investment in the greek budget. this means that the greek budget can save these two billion. the committee on budgets in this parliament has confirmed that the implementation of the programme before 2016 is important - it has already been said today - otherwise not only 5% but 95% of the pre-financing would have to be repaid. it is therefore important that there is a success check and that there is a permanent rapporteur on co-financing in the committee of the regions. i therefore call on the greek prime minister to do something about it in addition to these measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, this show of solidarity is useless.
in writing. the outbreak of the economic crisis in 2008 caused the collapse of the property market in spain. before that, high-risk financial instruments were sold to people by their savings banks to finance their homes without giving them detailed information about the credit transactions as consumers. hundreds of thousands of people have since been forced from their homes, driven to ruin and a few hundred even committed suicide. both spanish and european courts have found abusive clauses and practices in spanish mortgage law. tens of thousands of people have been displaced and forcibly evicted by this legislation. the commission also found that the exporting producers concerned had not provided any evidence that the measures in question were in line with the union interest. it is also important to promote social housing in europe, which is very weak in spain. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives. this option is not currently available in spain. that needs to change. we need european minimum standards for private competitions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. digital technologies are ushering in a paradigm shift in the global economy and have a significant impact on europe's competitiveness. all sectors of the economy are affected by digitisation. the commission estimates that a functioning digital single market will generate additional gdp growth of eur 415 billion. three quarters of these are from traditional industries and not from ict manufacturers. i would just say that the keyword is industry 4.0. we are talking about the absolute growth market. the big data sector alone is growing at 40% per year. that's seven times faster than the it market, which is also a fast-growing market. what can be done to put europe on the fast track? the digital infrastructure needs to be expanded. we need 34 billion euros here by 2020 to expand broadband networks. innovative standards for interoperability, which must be technology neutral, must be set. we need new training curricula. the commission has also proposed a regulation on the protection of personal data. 22% of europeans do not trust the operator of search engines, social networks and e-mail services. europe must regain its digital sovereignty and catch up with the us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council meeting has already shown me that there is once again a total failure within the european union. after the monetary and economic policy and the unsuccessful bailouts of greece, it is now overshadowed by the refugee policy. and once again, we see the total failure of the european union, of its institutions and of the whole structure of the european union. at first, it was, "we'll take them all". millions have made the journey. then it was, "no, we're not taking them all". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and now we are faced with the situation that we have ended up with the turks in a situation of blackmail, which again does not solve the problem. so i say, to solve this problem, we must first fight the islamic state. i welcome what the russians have tried to do together with the americans, but unfortunately it is only the russians who are doing it now. a: fighting the islamic state. secondly, the creation of safe zones in the arabian peninsula, in north africa, to keep people in the region. thirdly, to provide protection and assistance to those people in peaceful zones in the region, to accompany this process, but by no means to bring them all into europe, as the social democrats, the greens and the conservatives want. this can't work.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! it was indeed a good decision on 23 september that the council of ministers of the interior decided to distribute refugees to all eu countries. these majority decisions are a good sign of interinstitutional solidarity. but now they belong to the implementation. it needs a coalition of humanity that actually becomes a reality for the people - the women, the men, the children - who are fleeing from the barrel bombs of assad and isis. merkel said that we can do it. in this sense, it is necessary to abolish dublin, to create legal access routes, decent reception centres and not deportation prisons, as the frontex chief is now calling for. i am also surprised that mr. erdoğan is now being courted and his authoritarian behavior is no longer an issue gezi park, kurds, journalists etc. mr tusk, what we need from you as president of the council is for you to tell governments that we need a policy of courage and not of fear, a policy of welcome against the incitement of populists, whether they are called csu, fidesz, front national or fpö.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was in lebanon and jordan this weekend with some colleagues. we have seen firsthand the enormous burdens these countries are bearing. the limit of the capacity has been reached. we also asked ourselves, what happens when all this doesn't work? we can already see the causal link with the reduction in aid. in july, the benefits were reduced from $27 a month to $13.5 a month. that was one of the reasons for this massive wave of refugees that then came to europe. i welcome the council's decision. i'm just afraid she's going to be late. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. otherwise we're going to have some serious problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to pay tribute here today, a clear tribute to the german chancellor, angela merkel. it has not, as is often wrongly criticised, exacerbated the refugee crisis and invited the whole world to europe. it has given europe a human face and made clear what all those in power should remember: the right to asylum is an essential and fundamental part of the european catalogue of values. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i am therefore looking forward to discussing with chancellor merkel here tomorrow and hearing her plans for the next few years. at the same time, i am also pleased that french president françois hollande will be with us, although i find his activities less commendable. i was in calais two weeks ago and i have to say that the conditions there are shameful for an eu member state. so before we criticize other countries for their treatment of asylum seekers, we must turn to our own doorstep.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are talks of up to 1.5 million immigrants to germany this year, and there is no end in sight to the refugee tsunami. it is no wonder that europe's so-called representatives of the people, from juncker to timmermans, from merkel to faymann, are obviously inviting this and even cheering it. what is clear is that this immigration will cause an explosion of billions in costs, because open borders mean costs for those who come. but that also means less money for europe's poor and less money for europe's social problems, which we do have. i can guarantee you this: the lowering of social standards will also threaten social peace in the rich countries of europe. i also accuse you of criminally ignoring the concerns of europeans about the further progress of islamization, about islamic parallel worlds and also about the threat posed by isis terrorists.
in writing. ‒ there is no reason to vote against this report: it is recommended that the 2014 protocol to the convention on forced or compulsory labour be ratified in order to combat forced or compulsory labour and trafficking in human beings worldwide. the draft council decision is intended to empower member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the eu's competence. in the spirit of high labour standards to combat forced and compulsory labour, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it is recommended that the 2014 protocol to the convention on forced or compulsory labour be ratified in order to combat forced or compulsory labour and trafficking in human beings worldwide. the draft council decision is intended to empower member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the eu's competence. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ forced labour and human trafficking must be combated globally. the present draft council decision invites the member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the european union. the protocol sets out appropriate measures to be taken by ilo member states to prevent forced labour. i have voted in favour of this report because of the measures in question.
in writing. ‒ it is recommended that the 2014 protocol to the convention on forced or compulsory labour be ratified in order to combat forced or compulsory labour and trafficking in human beings worldwide. the draft council decision is intended to empower member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the eu's competence. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the proposed measures are appropriate and fall within the union's competence, not least because control measures are to be uniformly designed to ensure the functioning of the internal market. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research on the substances/drugs 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a stimulant that causes rapid heartbeat and pupil dilation in addition to its hallucinogenic effects. there is currently limited information on this 'drug'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i support this report and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposed measures are appropriate and fall within the union's competence, not least because control measures are to be uniformly designed to ensure the functioning of the internal market. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research of the substance/drug 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole is a stimulant substance which, in addition to its hallucinogenic effects, causes heart palpitations and pupil dilation. at present, there is limited information on this 'drug'. there have been deaths from this drug, but there is no 100% certainty that the drug alone was responsible. 4-methylamphetamine is the same substance for which the same control measures are proposed. i support this report and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research of the substance/drug 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the proposed measures are appropriate and fall within the union's competence, not least because control measures are to be uniformly designed to ensure the functioning of the internal market. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research on the substances/drugs 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for control measures for 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine. i also support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research on the substances/drugs 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the proposed measures are appropriate and fall within the union's competence, not least because control measures are to be uniformly designed to ensure the functioning of the internal market. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research of substances/drugs 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 and is therefore to be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for control measures for 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. i also support this report and i am speaking in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to control measures/research on the substances/drugs 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ bulgaria has applied for access due to severe winter conditions, as has greece, which has submitted two applications due to severe flooding. the solidarity fund is designed to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population of the regions affected. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ for example, the lack of liquidity is also a bottleneck for regional development. the new rules will provide for additional advances under the emff and, in certain areas, for full eu funding of certain programmes. the total amount is eur 4 billion. i voted in favour of the measure because the whole european economy is suffering from this development.
in writing. ‒ bulgaria has applied for access due to severe winter conditions, as has greece, which has submitted two applications due to severe flooding. the solidarity fund is designed to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population of the regions affected. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has had a devastating impact on the people of greece, and it is missing from every corner. in the present situation, the greek state cannot co-finance the european structural and investment funds and therefore needs solidarity. the prefinancing of the current financial period proposed by the commission will enable greece to complete important public projects already under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the protection of geographical indications is a key pillar of the quality characteristics of european products. i therefore welcome the extension of this protection and i shall vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ there is already a consensus within the european union that eu agricultural specialities should be protected by geographical indications of origin. the report now calls for eu-wide protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products such as bohemian crystal glass. i have voted in favour of this report because it also contributes to the fight against counterfeiting and other unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this proposal. i know the catastrophic state of the greek economy, the poverty of the people and the fate of many individuals who lost everything during and after the crisis. but i do not think that more money from unused eu pots will contribute to a viable solution in the long term. greece needs structural reforms and fiscal consolidation first and foremost to restore market confidence in the country, not just more money. i also believe that unused funds should be paid back to the paying member states in an aliquot manner.
in writing. ‒ the report does not contribute to a long-term improvement in greece's situation. i therefore do not support this report. the only way to provide real help to the greek people is to leave the euro zone.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it has serious consequences for lower income members of society, such as fisheries workers. furthermore, this does not lead to any long-term improvement in the situation of greece.
in writing. ‒ the closure of the opel plants in bochum was a direct consequence of the financial crisis, a fall in sales of up to 25% between 2007 and 2013 and increased competition in the mid-price segment from third-country manufacturers. the commission has decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of the aid granted to opel for the restructuring of its motor vehicle division. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the german authorities argue that the redundancies were triggered by the complete closure of the adam opel ag bochum plant. the closure is linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the support covers qualifications, career guidance, peer groups/workshops, entrepreneurship advice, job search/job fairs, follow-up and counselling and transfer workers' allowances. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a budgetary instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in the world trade pattern. this fund is going to put its money where society needs it most. that is why i have clearly supported this report.
in writing. ‒ a closure of ford genk would result in the loss of around 8000 jobs this includes indirect job losses , mainly affecting people aged between 30 and 54, which would lead to an increase in the unemployment rate in the limburg region by two percentage points to a total of 8.8%. regional gdp would be weakened by 3%, and labour productivity in the region would decline by 10.9%. in order to help the workers and the region in the spirit of a europe of solidarity, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the request was made in response to redundancies and cessations of activity at ford genk and 11 suppliers and downstream manufacturers. the reason for the closure is due to wide-ranging structural changes in the world trade structure as a result of globalisation. the aim is to help redundant workers reintegrate into the labour market. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ i also support this report because the fund supports affected workers in times of financial difficulty.
in writing. ‒ this is the 15th application for payments from the globalisation adjustment fund. this time it is over one million euros to be spent on 184 workers who were made redundant by alitalia. the application and the situation of the workers meet the criteria for mobilization. there is therefore nothing wrong with helping these former employees to re-enter the labour market through training and similar measures. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the italian authorities argue that the redundancies in the alitalia group are due to the decrease in the number of passengers carried in 2014 compared to 2010. the aim is to help workers (over 50 years of age) to find work and to provide training. the report is therefore worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it makes a positive contribution to the very areas where society needs it most. the european union can therefore do good for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the italian authorities argue that the redundancies in the alitalia group are due to the decrease in the number of passengers carried in 2014 compared to 2010. the aim is to help workers (over 50 years of age) to find work and to provide training. the report is therefore worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the report makes good suggestions on how to give local institutions more ownership of development projects and how to better represent the eu's financial interests in development cooperation, but fails to keep the measures as general as possible so that they can be adapted to local specific circumstances. rather, it points to very specific models which would not provide the best possible results in all circumstances. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report makes good suggestions on how to give local institutions more ownership of development projects, but fails to keep the measures general and aims to promote very specific actions. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses good suggestions. for example, it discusses how to give local institutions greater participation in development projects. however, the measures failed to promote specific actions. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report makes good suggestions on how to give local institutions more ownership of development projects, but fails to keep the measures general and aims to promote very specific actions. that is why i abstain from voting.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there's not much to talk about in this vw cause, i think. vw has manipulated, has cheated, has deliberately manipulated software. there's no question about that. it is not a particularly commendable approach for a group of this size and for a group of this responsibility. the damage to the course of action, many will suffer. the damage will be on the one hand and first and foremost on the part of the consumers. the damage is also environmental, as we have heard many times today. but the company itself, and therefore the employees, will also suffer from this scandal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. compensation that is more than just words of apology, compensation that really compensates for the damage suffered. but, as is so often the case in life, there is a second side to the coin. without wishing to make a big deal of this, we have a similar situation in the context of the fuel consumption of passenger cars. all the manufacturers' figures are never really real when it comes to gasoline consumption. these are consumption values that are generated purely in the laboratory. and that's tolerated by all of us. but this has direct effects on the environment, and it has direct effects on the consumer, namely on the consumer's wallet. the second aspect concerns america. we are talking about an american test. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis. that's up to three times more than cars can do. so who is this thing going to benefit, i ask you? i would like to say one thing: there have been no deaths, as in other cases in the automobile industry. so think of this as "honi soit qui mal y pense!"
i have to say, madam president, since the emissions scandal became public, europe's largest carmaker, the world's leading automobile manufacturer, has been hit with lawsuits, fines and damages in the billions. the head of vw had to resign, the head of vw usa has to testify before congress on thursday. today there was a meeting in wolfsburg, where the new vw boss said: "we need to save more", and the works council president added: "no jobs are affected yet". dieselgate is really a super-gau for the consumer, for the industrial base europe and for vw itself, which may even be a restructuring case. the new vw management has promised to provide education, transparency, information and compensation. at the same time, trust in the brand must be restored and this fraud and ethical misconduct punished. that's one side of the coin. the other side of the coin is - and this has been mentioned several times today - a technical side. for years and decades, there have been attempts to bring european clean diesel technology to the us market, small and medium-sized efficient diesel engines with good technology. the commission has repeatedly succeeded in reducing nitrogen levels for cars in the united states, while keeping them high for trucks. speakers have said: why now? why the u.s.? that should be questioned. the fact is that clean diesel technology is a clean technology, a european technology, which is at the cutting edge of both the reduction of pollutants and the reduction of co2. every second car registered in western europe is a diesel. diesel is a future technology, as is e-mobility. as regards the emissions tests, differences between laboratory results and values obtained in real life tests, i.e. driving tests, are due to technical reasons and are the result of measurement methods which are more than 20 years old and are no longer state of the art. so what can be done? we need to rethink. the automotive industry must adopt techniques that effectively reduce emissions. and it is the responsibility of the legislator to ensure that reliable emission controls are carried out under practical conditions and regular market monitoring.
in writing. the manipulated emissions figures at the car manufacturer volkswagen are an environmental and economic scandal. what we need now is not new legislation but anti-fraud and targeted prosecution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. those responsible must face the consequences. the main objective must be to restore confidence and to ensure maximum transparency in the provision of information. the exhaust gas tests and product information must be beyond doubt. the emission of pollutants may only be measured in accordance with the applicable legislation. we also need to have road emissions measurements instead of laboratory tricks, and the reforms already under way in fuel consumption testing and emissions measurements must be accelerated. in any case, i would like to warn against unnecessary legislation and call for full concentration on more rigorous control and enforcement of existing objectives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about libya, we usually talk about the mistakes of the west and what was done wrong. the question is, of course, valid, but it does not get us anywhere. the answer to the question of why things are going so slowly. it is urgent that the situation should be normalized, that is to say, that statehood should be restored in libya. it is urgent that there be a national unity government that can finally begin its work. this is the business of the libyan people, as we know. but there is also a european responsibility, and we have to ask ourselves whether we cannot do more. because it is necessary, because first of all we need stability in this region - it is in our neighbourhood, mare nostrum. secondly, because we have to stop the spread of daesh, and libya is the gateway to africa. thirdly, because we have a refugee problem. up to a million people are waiting to get to europe. that means we need a reasonable and reliable partner with whom we can work together to solve these problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the latest news from libya is simply disappointing. nevertheless, although there has been no breakthrough so far, the example of libya shows what the european union is capable of when it mobilizes its diplomatic forces together with the united nations. the eu must also show its flag more clearly than before in the other hotbeds of crisis in the middle east. as far as libya is concerned, we must make it clear to those responsible that there is no alternative to peace. the parties to the conflict must be aware that this opportunity, which the country has now, will not come again so soon. and we need to know what more years of civil war can mean for our security and what more refugees can mean for our social fabric.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 7 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants (com (2013) 0919 - c7-0003/2014 - 2013/0442 (cod)) (a8-0160/2015).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that today, with a few exceptions, a debate is being held in a way that perhaps is understandable to europeans. by talking about the goals we want to achieve. we are trying to achieve this by ensuring that europe has clean air, by preventing the 400 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution in europe every year, and by preventing cancer. we're discussing today how important it is that we can prevent these associated costs -- which are somewhere between 330 and 900 billion euros a year. that 's the right approach . we say why we do it. we have finally shown for once that it is not about bullying companies, that it is not about just taking action. we've already explained the objective. i believe that this compromise is a reasonable compromise because it represents the legitimate concerns, the health concerns of europeans, but on the other hand it also provides for measures so that industry, so that the economy can live with this compromise. i think we should give our consent to this compromise.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 7 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec (com (2014) 0174 - c7-0105/2014 - 2014/0096 (cod)) (a8-0042/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 7 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i have to say, madam president, with all due respect to your business and your presidency, i must ask you to keep to the usual. if someone forgets to ask a question under the 'blue card' procedure and then asks the next speaker, that is unusual in this house. so i ask you to handle it accordingly in future. there are certainly a lot of comments. if you allow more than the usual number of 'blue cards' in this area, it will probably become very tight over time. with all due respect, i'm asking you to consider that.
i have to say, madam president, turkey and europe have shared a common destiny for centuries. there were several stages: open confrontation as well as the intended membership. we are in a very difficult situation at the moment, and not just because of the refugee crisis. our future also depends on our overcoming these common difficulties. cooperation is important. i also believe that we must be very clear that this must not lead to a deterioration in the human rights situation of refugees in turkey, that this does not mean a free hand for the restriction of democratic rights, which we are seeing everywhere in turkey at the moment, and that this must not lead to the halting of the peace process with the kurds. unfortunately, we are experiencing that a lot of things are going in the opposite direction, in the wrong direction.
i have to say, madam president, we know that turkey is doing a lot on the refugee issue - at least more than europe. we owe the country a debt of gratitude. we also know that it is important to work closely with turkey on this issue. it helps us, and it helps turkey. but europe must not be allowed to get away with it. president erdoğan wants to win the next elections by fighting the kurds. but we cannot allow human rights to be trampled on and exchanged for refugee aid. we must continue to insist that these human rights are indivisible, that it is absolutely intolerable, that we will not tolerate a dead kurd being dragged through the city in a military vehicle. we want a stable turkey - a turkey that accepts european values and does not move further and further away from them, even though it is still doing so much for the refugees.
i have to say, madam president, we have had to listen to the council today once again to the embellishment of the political situation in turkey. and your claim that turkey is ready for europe is actually becoming one of the european union's lies. turkey is becoming more and more a risk: war against the kurds, tolerance of isis, business with isis and a president who campaigns like a sultan in central europe. and now the next blackmail: visa relief, or we'll send you the next million refugees to europe. it is now taking its revenge for not securing our external borders and for not making them stable. i will tell you one thing: the sovereignty and stability of our countries require that the external borders of the union be secured.
in writing. ‒ the new calendar is appropriate to the amount of work involved and provides sufficient space to deal in depth with the proposals to be worked on. i therefore vote in favour of the 2017 calendar.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this proposal because tunisia is one of the last anchors of stability in north africa and can therefore increasingly act as a bridge between the eu and this region.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is hereby offered the opportunity to participate in the missions and activities of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and thereby to co-finance the csdp. i have, however, abstained because i have too many questions to answer on this subject.
in writing. ‒ only cooperating with the mena region countries, the eu will be able to build a solid and holistic response to the migratory flows. tunisia can, and should be, a strategic partner, but a fruitful cooperation will be possible only if the country is economically and politically stable. in this regard tunisia’s participation in the eu program is essential. tunisia is already working together with easo under the external action strategy and i hope that the cooperation will go on throughout the transition process towards a consolidated democracy.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is hereby offered the opportunity to participate in the missions and activities of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and thereby to co-finance the csdp. i have, however, abstained because i have too many questions to answer on this subject.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposals in this report. i think it is appropriate and necessary to increase the ceiling for small claims from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000.
in writing. ‒ raising the threshold for small claims under the european small claims procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 is a good proposal. for smes, this will be a significant improvement. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ raising the threshold for small claims under the european small claims procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 is a good proposal. for smes, this will be a significant improvement. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this draft law. the reasons given for not yet regulating medium-sized combustion plants, but for regulating large and small combustion plants, are quite understandable and worthy of support. but since the operators of combustion plants of this size, which are often installed for very specific purposes and have their own standards, could incur high costs, i shall refrain from commenting.
in writing. ‒ a uniform regulation of emission limits for medium combustion plants (as is already the case for small and large combustion plants) is in itself sensible and desirable from the point of view of environmental protection. however, since this will be a burden, in terms of administrative and financial costs, mainly on smes (there are some 150 000 medium combustion plants [firing heat output between 1 and 50 megawatts] in the fields of electricity generation, domestic heating/cooling, industrial heat/steam generation), i shall abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ after small and large combustion plants have already been regulated in their emission values, it is now the turn of medium-sized combustion plants. there are about 150,000 of them in the european union. the regulation would be another hurdle for owners. member states may still adopt stricter standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ a uniform regulation of emission limits for medium combustion plants (as is already the case for small and large combustion plants) is in itself sensible and desirable from the point of view of environmental protection. however, since this will be a burden, in terms of administrative and financial costs, mainly on smes (there are some 150 000 medium combustion plants [firing heat output between 1 and 50 megawatts] in the fields of electricity generation, domestic heating/cooling, industrial heat/steam generation), i shall abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is worthy of support as it repeals the existing directive on certain milk products (caseins and caseinates) and creates a new one which also adapts to the current powers of the commission, to new provisions in the food sector (e.g. the allergen regulation) and to the international standard (codex alimentarius). i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive is in itself worthy of support, since it repeals the existing directive on certain milk products (caseins and caseinates) and creates a new one, which also adapts to the current powers of the commission, newly existing provisions in the food sector (e.g. the allergen regulation) and the international standard (codex alimentarius). that is why i am in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because it abolishes the existing directive on certain milk products (caseins and caseinates) and creates a new one. it is also the only one among others which brings new existing provisions in the food sector, such as the allergen regulation, into line with the international standard.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive is in itself worthy of support, since it repeals the existing directive on certain milk products (caseins and caseinates) and creates a new one, which also adapts to the current powers of the commission, newly existing provisions in the food sector (e.g. the allergen regulation) and the international standard (codex alimentarius). that is why i am in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in her report, ms gräßle makes very constructive suggestions on how the eu can better protect its financial interests in public procurement, prevent corruption and exclude even previously unreliable contractors from applying. it is more stringent than the commission proposal. i support her line and i vote for her report.
in writing. ‒ this report contains very constructive suggestions on how to better protect financial interests in public procurement, prevent corruption and exclude formerly unreliable contractors from bidding. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr hökmark how he really sees the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises, because of course in america enterprises generally have much higher equity capital and are therefore much more able to withstand the risk that can arise from various market conditions. in europe, small and mediumsized enterprises are highly dependent on credit. is there a way of strengthening risk capital and equity capital for european companies too?
the commission has already done so. the present action plan for the creation of a capital markets union comprises a number of measures, the most important and urgent of which, in my view, is the extension of financing opportunities and easier access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises. small and mediumsized enterprises are of particular importance in europe. they not only employ two thirds of all workers in the eu, but also generate almost 60% of value added. and 75% of smes are financed by bank loans. we all know how difficult this is right now. the word "credit crunch" is everywhere in the media. small and medium-sized enterprises have difficult access to capital, but start-ups do too. alternative forms of financing such as crowdfunding are therefore of particular importance. in addition to these smes and the alternatives, fast-growing companies with high growth potential also need attractive conditions for capital. the financing system in europe is not efficient enough here. the market for equity financing and borrowing outside the banking system is underdeveloped in our country. in particular, venture and equity capital are of particular importance in financing growth. however, european venture capital funds are relatively small compared to their us counterparts. the average european venture capital fund is only half the size of a us fund, with a capital base of eur 60 million, and around 90% of venture capital investments in europe are in eight member states. this shows that venture capital markets appear to be underdeveloped in most member states. if the venture capital market in europe were as large as in the us, start-ups and growth companies in particular would have had up to €90 billion more in funding available during the crisis years 2008 to 2013 the commissioner has already mentioned this today. and compared to us companies, european smes receive five times less capital market funding and are dependent on bank loans. poor innovation prevents growth and employment and prevents new business models. that is why europe needs diversified capital markets, a stable financial system. this is the only way to create growth and jobs and to encourage investment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the capital markets union is right and important because it strengthens the internal market. the capital markets union is a necessary complement to the expanded european credit market. more financing means more potential for growth, employment and investment. we do not want to americanize the financing possibilities for companies, but we want the european capital market to function with the involvement of the banks. the core function of a european capital market is to finance the real economy, to free smes from a possible credit crunch, to promote entrepreneurship and to stimulate investment. it is therefore very important that we define what we mean by capital markets union, because otherwise there are too many people who are apparently or actually afraid. i would like to mention just two figures: small and mediumsized enterprises in the us receive five times more funding from the capital market than in europe. secondly, if the venture capital market in the european union had developed as much as in the united states, we in europe would have had an additional 90 billion euros for investment in the last five years. i think we should not miss this money. it takes effort!
question for the 'blue card' procedure. mr ferber has described very well the advantages of the system. i would be particularly interested to see what this means for small and mediumsized enterprises, because they are of course also now being given new opportunities. could we just get that for a second?
i have to say, madam president, it is rare that we discuss a report in which there is not one, two or three hairs left in the soup. it's really good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the rules will protect them from future abuse and fraud in online commerce and will also protect their wallets. it is gratifying that the amount of the abusive payments with payment instruments has been reduced from eur 150 to eur 50. i would also like to mention the austrian consumer-friendly system. in this case, if the consumer is not at fault, he does not incur any costs in the event of a loss. finally, i would like to mention another positive aspect, namely that we have not wavered from rules such as the eight-week deadline for the reimbursement of direct debits, because this is an important right that consumers have known for years, and in that respect congratulations to the rapporteur.
madam president, i was there in kolontár five years ago, two weeks after the accident happened, and i could talk to people. i saw those who had been hurt, i spoke to those whose families had been killed in the accident. i saw the destroyed houses. and i was back there again, together with benedek jávor, last week to see that, yes, some houses have been rebuilt; yes the territory has been cleaned; yes, there is a memorial site; and yes also, it is not mud any more but a dry residue has been put there. but the basic thing has not been changed, neither in hungary nor at european level, which is the ‘polluter pays’ principle that the european union has as its basis. none of the people really responsible has been sentenced. there are some court cases but they are not finalised yet – and the fact is that the taxpayer had to pay for it, not the company. the insurance that the company offered was eur 17 000. that is ridiculous. so what we need from you, commissioner, is to make sure that inspections are being done, that there is a fund for industrial disasters and that there is obligatory and adequate insurance taken out by companies according to the risk of the production they have. otherwise prevention will not happen; accountability will not be there; and, again, the taxpayers will have to pay, not the polluters. this has to change.
in writing. despite all the denials, doubling the capacity of the north stream pipeline is a great opportunity for european energy security. not only would the union be able to bypass uncertain transit countries which have repeatedly distinguished themselves by extracting gas destined for europe, but doubling the north stream capacity would also increase the supply diversification opportunities of those countries which are themselves highly dependent on other regions. from a geopolitical point of view, this pipeline development provided a good opportunity to resume in-depth talks with russia, to normalize relations and to revive the european-russian partnership, in which russia has always been a reliable supplier of gas and europe a reliable customer in energy matters. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is not just the united states that has been a major player in the world economy, but also the world economy as a whole. the price of such a strategy is not real benefits but more self-inflicted problems. instead of continuing this cycle, europe would do well to pursue pragmatic and proven approaches to europe's energy security not with a consistent regularity against, but with russia.
i have to say, madam president, thailand is an important partner of europe, not only in tourism but also in trade. thailand is also a strategic partner. we therefore observe with concern that there has been an increasing frequency of restrictions on democracy, that there has been an increasing number of violations of human rights and that, above all, there has been a systematic violation of social and labour rights. i share your concern about andy hall. this is a symptomatic case, and i hope that the thai authorities will drop these charges very soon. i also want to register that there are tentative steps towards normalization in thailand. i hope that thailand will have the courage to return to democratic conditions quickly and swiftly. we could perhaps do something with our trade policy to make this easier and faster.
i have to say, madam president, we know thailand as a country with friendly people, great tradition, high culture, hospitality and also very successful economically. of course, martial law does not correspond to our european democratic ideals. but we should be careful not to measure with two different scales. on the one hand we criticise arms deliveries, we criticise human rights and working conditions, but we measure with two different standards. i miss the same standards in other countries like saudi arabia. but we should continue to monitor the individual political groups and the individual political players closely and not come in with a finger pointing and present ourselves as european schoolmasters. i am optimistic that the work on the new constitution will be successful and that the 2017 elections will be held on schedule, on time and democratically.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mr kelly what the situation is in the field of education. is there any possibility of drawing up proposals in the field of public relations and education, so that information can be given on the spot and the necessary framework conditions can be set up?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have known for years that the union has been calling on the member states to step up the fight against boko haram. but unfortunately, far too little has been achieved. hostage-taking of predominantly female residents is common. we have seen the suicide bombings by child soldiers this summer, and the systematic destruction of christian villages continues. in northern nigeria, there are currently 1.2 million children on the run, and according to unicef, half of those children are under the age of five. some 265,000 children were displaced to neighbouring countries. if europe does not consistently support and fight against islamism in nigeria and the inhuman barbarity of boko haram, we should not be surprised if the next immigration tsunami is about to take place.
ms zuber, thank you for your intervention but i would like to inform you that it was not bureaucrats but the plenary of this parliament which, in the last part-session, decided to limit the number of written questions. i am sorry. that is a fact: it was not bureaucrats, it was the plenary which decided on that.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
in writing. ‒ the text clarifies the extent to which the current framework for electronic payments is no longer adequately adapted to innovation and is partly unregulated, or the extent to which individual national regulations contradict each other and therefore prevent payment services from operating across borders. it aims to make payment services more efficient, to give customers more choice, to increase transparency in this field and to strengthen trust in such services. i support all these proposals and therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the extent to which the current framework for electronic payments is no longer adequately adapted to innovation. in some cases, there is a lack of regulation or national regulations are in conflict with each other, which prevents payment services from operating across borders. the report aims to improve the efficiency of payment services, to provide customers with more choice, to increase transparency in this field and to strengthen trust in such services. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report explains why the current framework for electronic payments is no longer adapted to the current state of innovation and is partially unregulated. it also notes that there are contradictions between national regulations, which prevent payment service providers from operating across borders. the report calls for more efficient payment services, more choice for customers, more transparency and more trust in such services. the report does not have any bad proposals in principle, but there are some points which need to be defined in greater detail. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the extent to which the current framework for electronic payments is no longer adequately adapted to innovation. in some cases, there is a lack of regulation or national regulations are in conflict with each other, and payment services cannot operate across borders. the report aims to improve the efficiency of payment services, to provide customers with more choice, to increase transparency in this field and to strengthen trust in such services. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote against this resolution. it is true that many people have lost their homes and their livelihoods in spain as a result of the credit crisis and speculative misuse of risky financial instruments, but the proposals made go beyond the realities of the market economy.
in writing. ‒ while the report calls for improving the protection of mortgage borrowers, it contains a populist appeal to the human right to housing. the eu wants to intervene in the housing laws of the member states and is therefore overstepping its powers. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that the government and the associations must find a solution to the problem of over-indebtedness. it would be more important to have a more comprehensive approach than to talk only of associations.
in writing. ‒ while the report calls for improving the protection of mortgage borrowers, it contains a populist appeal to the human right to housing. the eu wants to intervene in the housing laws of the member states and is therefore overstepping its powers. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution clearly condemns the barbarity of the death penalty and calls for the eu to take a clear position on this issue, including in its foreign policy. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report condemns the use of the death penalty and ultimately affirms its abolition. the death penalty is incompatible with values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report also calls on the commission to strengthen controls on exports of products which could be used for the execution of the death penalty. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i think the number of death sentences is worrying. at least 2,466 people were sentenced to death in 55 states in 2014, an increase of almost 23% compared to 2013. in addition, at least 607 executions were carried out worldwide in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report condemns the use of the death penalty and ultimately affirms its abolition. the death penalty is incompatible with values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report also calls on the commission to strengthen controls on exports of products which could be used for the execution of the death penalty. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ 10 october marks the 13th european day against the death penalty. that is why we must speak out again and again and again against the death penalty. although some progress has been made in recent years towards abolition, for example, the use of the death penalty for drug offences worldwide increased by 23% in 2014 compared to the previous year. we know that death sentences have little deterrent effect. they therefore do not contribute to the reduction of drug trafficking or to the deterrence of individuals from drug abuse. the death penalty for drug offences is illegal under various international conventions, such as the international covenant on civil and political rights and the human rights convention. the punishment is not commensurate with the crime. the commission and the member states should therefore support the abolition of the death penalty and promote projects to combat drug abuse. the application of the death penalty in general, and particularly for drug offences or for acts defined as homosexual, is not in line with the values of the european union. the abolition of the death penalty should be a precondition for financial and technical support for projects to combat drugs. european support must not be linked to a judiciary that pronounces death sentences and, in the worst case, executes them. the ultimate objective of the european union must be the complete abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law and for the extractive industry to adhere to the bat principle. the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive. the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised compulsory social security scheme and to draw up a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters. i am therefore voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is to be supported as it calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law. the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive. the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised mandatory provision (by the end of 2016) and to prepare a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters. the resolution also provides that there will be no additional burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that protecting the environment means protecting the homeland. the proposal contains important and correct approaches. the commission is also urged to finally present the legislative proposal on environmental inspections.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is to be supported as it calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law. the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive. the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised mandatory provision (by the end of 2016) and to prepare a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters. the resolution also provides that there will be no additional burden on industry.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for a revision focusing on gender equality. this includes more education and the fight against discrimination and violence. i think that women have a very good chance of getting all levels of education. all other decisions should be left to the member states. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because it is in favour of the implementation of minority rights in the member states. it is up to the member states to decide which laws to adopt to achieve gender equality and close the wage gap. it also calls for sanctions against companies that do not adhere to gender equality, for lgbt equality to be included in the curriculum, and for data to be collected on gender, lgbt and transgender discrimination. i reject these proposals and therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it is intended to impose a large number of lgbti requirements on national legislators. i do not think that the title of the report reflects its content.
in writing. ‒ economic independence is a prerequisite for enabling european citizens, both women and men, to exercise control and make genuine choices in their lives. in this case it is clear that there is no subsidiarity issue, since we are talking about a directive – european union legislation – on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment. according to my knowledge, not implementing the law should not be an option for member states. therefore i wonder why the commission is not doing more to resolve the member states’ partial incompliance and omissive attitude regarding the provisions of the directive.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on member states to strengthen the mechanisms that implement gender equality more effectively. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from discrimination. the principle of equal pay for men and women is also called for. the commission also calls for the introduction of sanctions at eu level to exclude companies that violate the principle of equality from public procurement and from funding from the eu budget. i think that small and mediumsized enterprises cannot meet this requirement for economic reasons, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it is intended to impose a large number of lgbti requirements on national legislators. i do not think that the title of the report reflects its content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to devote a few moments of my time to mr weber of the european people's party, who is not in the chamber at the moment. it is intolerable, in my view, that he should be making fun of what he calls the european right-wing populists. these are the very political forces which represent the opinion of their people, and they are doing so with increasing popular support - whether it is the dutch vrijheidspartij, number one in the polls, the front national, number one in france, the lega nord in italy, which is on its way to becoming a significant force in italy, or my party in austria, which has now reached over 30% in the elections in the capital. but not just in my group, but in other groups, whether it's ukip in the uk, whether it's the afd in germany, all of these are parties that are increasingly representing their populations. you should write in your diary that successful politics is achieved when you represent the views of your people, and not here in the european ivory tower, dictating things that fewer and fewer people want. but we are talking about the council today, and i will say this briefly: from council to council, from parliamentary debate to parliamentary debate, the situation is getting worse: unemployment is rising, debt is rising, social programmes are being reduced, and since 2013 the council has been trying to reduce what it calls 'illegal migration' from africa. in truth, the floodgates are more open than ever, and this failed policy urgently needs to be... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have had one blue-card request but, colleagues, i will have to refrain from admitting blue—card questions because we are already running late. i ask you to respect that.
mr aker, this is definitely not a point of order. i will continue with the list of speakers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 14 october 2015, immediately afterwards. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to give judgment on the application.
in writing. a global climate change agreement such as cop 21 should be binding on all parties and should have an enforcement mechanism. similarly, such an agreement should have the necessary sanctions to ensure that all signatory countries, regardless of their size and exposure to climate change, also comply with the binding conditions. while there was some initial good news on the way to cop 21, for example, over 80% of all countries have submitted their voluntary contributions and large us corporations such as procter & gamble and johnson & johnson have committed themselves to voluntary climate action. this is although too few national contractors are actually achieving the 2°c target a first step, but sustainable emission reductions will not be possible without commitment and implementation assessments. also, some large polluters have made proposals that are so dynamic in adapting to their countries' economic growth and whose reduction targets are so disconnected from their pollution rate that they hardly need to meet real climate action. for the eu and its member states, this means making a number of strict commitments to themselves - a fact which will certainly make it even more difficult in the future to maintain a high level of global competitiveness.
in writing. the conclusion of an adapted legally binding protocol, which is actually respected by each contracting party, would be desirable in principle. unfortunately, the real perpetrators (the us, china) will continue to fail to comply with it. the eu's unilateral commitment to this commitment gives the us and china a huge competitive advantage. i cannot agree with this report in the interests of preserving the union's competitiveness.
in writing. if we are talking about climate protection and want to introduce binding rules for this, then all parties should also adhere to them. the reality is that china and the us in particular are not complying with these commitments, while the eu feels obliged to unilaterally comply with the conclusion of an adapted legally binding protocol. this insistence on the part of the eu leads to a distortion of competition and a clear advantage for the main culprits, namely china and the usa. that is why i cannot agree to this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european commission has been negotiating with the american authorities for two years to renew the safe harbour agreement, and now the european court of justice has overturned that agreement. the ecj thus agrees with max schrems of austria, who said that us law does not provide sufficient protection for the monitoring of data that facebook transmits to servers in the us. the impact of the ecj ruling is much wider than that. there is legal uncertainty about up to 5 000 companies that have exchanged customer data between europe and the us since the safe harbour agreement. these are not just big us cloud providers and social networks, but many start-ups with digital business fields and other small internet companies. the us cloud providers have been stripped of their legal basis. the ecj also said that national data protection authorities will be strengthened, and that they will be able to punish possible infringements. on the other hand, the ecj ruling will trigger billions of investment, as amazon, facebook, google and apple will set up data centres in europe. the plans are there. what we need now is a legal framework that provides security.
the commission has already done so. i welcome the ecj's decision, as do most of the people in this chamber, because it strengthens the fundamental rights of data protection. but the implications may be far-reaching, they may even be enormous. i therefore really miss any reference from the ecj to real implementation, transitional arrangements or other measures. in addition, i find it very critical that in the current interpretation of this judgment, it is now possible for 28 data protection authorities in europe to make national regulations that differ. i believe that the council and the commission have the first chance to move in this right direction in the trilogue negotiations on the new data protection law. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national and regional authorities in the member states to cover the costs of the european union's activities in the field of education and training. but let me also express my disapproval of the voting behaviour of the left in this house. it is irresponsible that over 4 000 sectors of the economy, and thus hundreds of thousands of jobs, could be put at risk in the face of impending sanctions. and quite apart from the impact on millions of citizens, that is not the work we have to do here in parliament. get on board now!
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the visa regime at european level. it also proposes good transparency measures and involves the decision-making powers of the member states. the result is a comprehensive proposal, particularly in the area of prevention, against the entry of criminals and terrorists. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ preventive measures against terrorists and other criminals are welcome. the report, while strengthening the commission, is transparent and acceptable because it takes account of the decisions of the member states.
in writing. ‒ while the report also strengthens the commission, it is nonetheless transparent and takes account of the decisions taken by the member states. he supports prevention against criminals and terrorists and for that he has my approval.
in writing. ‒ preventive measures against terrorists and other criminals are welcome. the report, while strengthening the commission, is transparent and acceptable because it takes account of the decisions of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i am in favour of increasing funding for frontex, easo and europol to secure europe's borders and stem the flow of refugees, given the current emergency, but this report goes too far in calling for an increase in the eu budget due to the refugee crisis, both in terms of the budget and the areas to which these funds should be directed. i shall vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ it is not clear why austria has to pay much higher contributions than countries of about the same size and economically quite comparable. the proposed budgetary adjustment in favour of the united kingdom will create a disparity in treatment between the other member states. that is why this report is not supported.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for an increase in financial resources for electronic communications, among other things. i have voted against this measure because i consider it unnecessary and merely another means of inflating the union budget.
in writing. ‒ it is not clear why austria has to pay much higher contributions than countries of about the same size and economically quite comparable. the proposed budgetary adjustment in favour of the united kingdom will create a disparity in treatment between the other member states. that is why this report is not supported.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis poses major difficulties for the budgets of the countries concerned; i think it is wrong to introduce flexibility measures in this context and thus to soften the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ in view of the exorbitant amounts of money already required by the union and the member states to deal with the refugee crisis, the report does not agree to allocate an additional €66.1 million per flexibility instrument for measures in the migration agenda, which has not been budgeted so far. the report shows that the union and its member states are also facing financial constraints as a result of the crisis. the report also leaves open the question of what exactly the funds should be used for. i cannot support such an opaque report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to free up financial resources for the european agenda for integration. i voted against because i believe that the european agenda on migration is totally unsuitable to provide solutions in the face of the current wave of refugees.
in writing. ‒ in view of the exorbitant amounts of money already required by the union and the member states to deal with the refugee crisis, the report does not agree to allocate an additional €66.1 million per flexibility instrument for measures in the migration agenda, which has not been budgeted so far. the report shows that the union and its member states are also facing financial constraints as a result of the crisis. the report also leaves out the precise purpose of the funds. i cannot support such an opaque report.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the report is not the right one and should therefore be rejected. a lasting solution can only be achieved by addressing the causes of migration and refugee movements.
in writing. ‒ increasing financial resources for the refugee problem, which are intended to continue to deal with the symptoms rather than the causes of the problem, is not to be supported. the willingness of parliament to accept the continued application of the flexibility provisions, if further increases are necessary, mentioned in the report, is like a bottomless barrel. the report lacks concrete measures that could contribute to a lasting solution to the problem. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for urgent budgetary measures to tackle the refugee crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ increasing financial resources for the refugee problem, which are intended to continue to deal with the symptoms rather than the causes of the problem, is not to be supported. the willingness of parliament to accept the continued application of the flexibility provisions, if further increases are necessary, mentioned in the report, is like a bottomless barrel. the report lacks concrete measures that could contribute to a lasting solution to the problem. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the immunity of mr béla kovács should be waived, since he is accused of having spied against the eu institutions. the hungarian prosecutor's office plans to open an investigation in this context, as espionage activities for a third country are punishable. the report itself does not, unfortunately, describe the evidence or the exact facts, which is why i am abstaining.
in writing. ‒ it is not possible to determine whether the statements of the hungarian advocate general, mr polt, or the contrary statements of the member of parliament, mr béla kovács, can be believed. it cannot be ruled out that the reasons for extradition mentioned are of political origin. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the waiver of the immunity of mr béla kovács. i am in favour of the waiver of immunity. in this particular case, however, i do not see the allegations sufficiently proven. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is not possible to determine whether the statements of the hungarian advocate general, mr polt, or the contrary statements of the member of parliament, mr béla kovács, can be believed. it cannot be ruled out that the reasons for extradition mentioned are of political origin. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the efsi is an illusory project that is not feasible. since the whole project is to be rejected, i cannot support the proposed deputy managing director either.
in writing. ‒ as i am extremely critical of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and voted against its creation, i abstained in this nomination.
in writing. ‒ the efsi is an illusory project that is not feasible. since the whole project is to be rejected, i cannot support the proposed deputy managing director either.
in writing. ‒ i support the election of mr wilhelm molterer as managing director of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ the efsi is an illusory project that is not feasible. since the whole project is to be rejected, i cannot support the proposed managing director either.
in writing. ‒ as i am extremely critical of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and voted against its creation, i abstained in this nomination.
in writing. ‒ the efsi is an illusory project that is not feasible. since the whole project is to be rejected, i cannot support the proposed managing director either.
in writing. ‒ it would be absolutely desirable, in the interests of the global climate, to conclude a binding agreement in paris, which would actually be ratified and respected by all signatories. however, the us and chinese proposals are formulated in such a way that they do not have to take any action themselves. the same is true of other major polluters, such as saudi arabia, which has not put forward any proposals. under these conditions, it seems difficult for the eu to unilaterally adhere to very strict commitments without losing competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of an adapted legally binding protocol, which is actually respected by each contracting party, would be desirable in principle. unfortunately, the real perpetrators (the us, china) will continue to fail to comply with it. the eu's unilateral commitment to this commitment gives the us and china a huge competitive advantage. i cannot agree with this report in the interests of preserving the union's competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion and adoption of a legally binding protocol, as described here, is desirable only if it is also respected by all parties involved. the us and china are also evading their responsibilities in these climate agreements, which only mean a reduction in the eu's competitiveness. the report also aims to create new institutions which further restrict national competences and whose effectiveness is questionable. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of an adapted legally binding protocol, which is actually respected by each contracting party, would be desirable in principle. unfortunately, the real perpetrators (the us, china) will continue to fail to comply with it. the eu's unilateral commitment to this commitment gives the us and china a huge competitive advantage. i cannot agree with this report in the interests of preserving the union's competitiveness.
mr president, i have a request: the votes on thursday will again be very large. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. commissioner vestager has certainly made a landmark statement on fair tax competition last week, when she declared that in the first two cases arising from the luxleak scandal, namely the fiat subsidiary and starbucks, the tax rulings that were the tax rulings were unlawful state aid. in total, however, there were more than 350 tax rulings, tax agreements, companies which had entered into special agreements with the luxembourg tax authorities. many of these companies paid less than 1 percent in taxes. this has led to enormous tax evasions throughout europe. the question arose today: how high were these failures? there is a study commissioned by the european parliament which estimates that up to 190 billion euros are lost every year in the european union through profit shifting, special tax schemes, inefficient tax collection and similar practices. but there is also a similar analysis by the imf, which says that it is five percent of the annual corporate tax revenue that we are losing. the oecd shows how unfair this system is. the strategy of multinationals is to pay on average only 5% of the cost of production, whereas small and medium-sized enterprises pay on average 30%, and crossborder companies pay on average 30% less than national companies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies is a step in the right direction. the first concrete step is that tax rulings and transfer pricing agreements need to be exchanged, that there is more transparency in the area of taxation, and that there is tax competition and tax fairness. but that's not enough. there must be more measures, as well as country by country reporting, the fair taxpayer seal, the common corporate tax base for entrepreneurs operating in the different member states. but also patent boxes with preferential arrangements, that tax is paid where the value is created, and an upgrading of the code of conduct group to name just a few.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteurs and especially mr ferber for his report and his demands, and also for the debate on this today. we must say clearly to the people: on the one hand commissioner vestager is lifting illegal tax rulings, on the other hand we are discussing tax privileges in luxleaks, on the third we are debating in parliament more justice, more transparency, more fairness in tax policy. and the member states refuse to transmit the tax rulings. this is unacceptable! we need more fairness, more transparency, more level playing field, we need a common tax base, we need country-by-country reporting, and we need the transmission of tax rulings to ensure that we have more fairness and equity in the european economy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for the automatic exchange of information has unfortunately been watered down by the finance ministers on many important points. and this despite the finance ministers' commitment to fair tax competition! the starbucks and fiat decisions show us the importance of applying retroactively to existing rulings. in both cases the period is longer than the five years requested by the finance ministers. we want to see such illegitimate cases declared illegal in the future. even if they're from a long time ago! we therefore advocate that all valid rulings for legal entities, whether cross-border or not, be exchanged. we are calling for more information to be exchanged, such as tax identification numbers, or for rulings to be exchanged immediately rather than months later! if the finance ministers are committed to fair tax competition, then they must act accordingly and take their decisions accordingly! this report contains a number of good measures to bring more transparency into the jungle of rulings.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much. i would also like to thank my colleague, mr schwab. i would like to ask the question: what are the benefits of this directive for hotels and small and mediumsized enterprises? it will certainly lead to more employment, because of course it will be a little more complex to handle these things. the lawyers may also make some money and there will of course be a price increase in this area because of course the insurance companies will also benefit. can we estimate how this will affect tourism in europe in general?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new version of the directive will in fact make life easier for holidaymakers in the future by providing them with easier ways of returning to work, a single point of contact and simple assistance in emergencies. but the tour operators were not given enough consideration at first. in a tourist country like austria in particular, the plan to significantly extend the liability of small and medium-sized hotel operators as well as travel agencies has been met with considerable criticism. in some cases, this criticism has been positively received, so that travel agencies can now offer certain services in the package without automatically incurring the liability of the organiser. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tourist industry is able to compete with the other tourist industries in the community. on the other hand, the directive could have gone further in favour of holidaymakers. the directive now covers click-throughs. however, this only covers cases where the name, e-mail and credit card details of the holidaymaker are transferred from one site to another, which is completely unusual in practice. in this context, i also welcome the introduction of a review clause to respond to further developments in the online sector. the directive is therefore a step in the right direction, improving in particular the legal protection of holidaymakers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. we cannot ignore the fact that the joy we feel here, the joy of consumers, has not yet reached all entrepreneurs, because they feel restricted in their entrepreneurial activity, in their entrepreneurial freedom, and as service providers to their customers. i therefore ask that all companies be fully informed, that we allow a more appropriate solution to be found in the transposition of national legislation, that we take the evaluation seriously in three years' time and also that we are prepared to incorporate the experience gained. what are the reasons for these concerns? on the one hand, there is legal uncertainty among smes because of the unclear definitions. it is complained that trips can only become a package holiday after the booking has been made. it is complained that the threshold of 25% of the total price for additional tourist services is too low and it is feared that the bureaucratic burden is burdensome because it is necessary to assess which legal regime will be applied on a case-by-case basis. we must make sure that bureaucracy is not overwhelming. we must ensure legal certainty and we must eliminate the uncertainties that exist in the companies. the only way to do this is to have open access to implementation and to have more information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european citizens' initiative institute, while having the good idea of involving citizens in legislation, has so far, as with so much in the union, kept its promises. the institute has been in existence for three years, 51 initiatives have been submitted, and no initiative has yet led to a legislative procedure, not even the good, excellent initiative against ttip. the commissioner, what are the eu citizens going to think? i also consider the present draft, the attempt to give eu citizens a user-friendly tool and to remove minor obstacles, to be a mere blunder, an unsuitable attempt. it is only intended to give the union a democratic fig leaf and is in practice completely toothless. i would therefore say that this initiative, as it stands, is a placebo. but, commissioner, the people will not be fooled any longer.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not democracy is communication. democracy is about being able to talk to each other. that's why we have freedom of the press, that's why we created freedom of speech. the internet a neutral internet is the most important infrastructure of democracy for the future. if we break net neutrality, we also damage our democracy. net neutrality is not a question that can be considered gradually. the net is neutral and equal for all or it is not. what we are deciding today - with the majority of conservatives, many social democrats and liberal right-wing conservatives - is an end to net neutrality and thus a damage to democracy. it is not a benefit to the economy either, as is always argued here. because in a neutral network, small businesses can challenge the big ones. when neutrality is abolished, we will cement the great, the powerful, for all time. that's what's happening here. in europe, only a few large companies are benefiting from this, and these are the telecommunications industries. that's the only thing you're doing for the people here today: you're helping a few big corporations. the fact that mr ansip is here is commendable, but commissioner oettinger should be in the front seat, because commissioner oettinger is the one responsible and the one guilty for this bad decision at commission level. he should be here to confront us. but he's tweeting with a lot of enthusiasm, or his team, i saw. democracy is communication, that's how it should be, but he should not only send, he should also read, he should look in his mobile phone what the population is saying and writing about this resolution. i see only resistance, i read only protest against this decision. we should listen to this, we should vote against it and not accept it.
barbara kappel, on behalf of the enf group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for almost two years now this house has been dealing with the telecoms package, and it is really important that this be concluded today because there must be legal certainty, and because it is important that this package, which is such an important and essential item in the digital agenda, be implemented. it's been reduced now, and we've all got so many internet subscriptions. it has been reduced not only to protecting user rights but to abolishing roaming charges, as has been said several times today. there's a cap next year and the phase-out in 2017. but the main thing was about net neutrality. net neutrality must be maintained, there must be no two-speed internet. network operators should have the same rights to send all data packets through their lines, regardless of the content they contain and where they come from. but if we look at data traffic, we have to realize that in a few years, data traffic will be completely restructured. there will be 3.2 billion internet-enabled machines in the next four years as part of the internet of things, which will take up 50% of data traffic in europe and one third of the world's data traffic. in addition, many households are not yet connected to the internet. broadband expansion is essential: €34 billion for fast broadband, €90 billion more for the last mile. the last mile will be necessary to determine the transmission capacity per household. that, ladies and gentlemen, is net neutrality and free access to the internet. every citizen should have it. every citizen should have the right to access the internet. let's give him a chance to use it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo vera, very much for continuing to do what the citizens of europe have asked for. i was once approached by a student who complained about the exorbitant costs of travelling to another country in europe. i sat down with commissioner reding at the time and she confirmed it. the european commission has made a proposal for roaming i which was groundbreaking. i am still grateful to the european commission for not abandoning this path but for continuing to follow it. i think it's important today to see that we can actually eliminate roaming charges by june 14, 2017. by april 30, 2016, the cost will be reduced to 5 cents per minute, 2 cents for sms and 5 cents for the data. i believe that it is a huge step forward to actually achieve the digital single market by 2018. i think that, in the case of net neutrality, we must also say that the threat of network congestion must be prevented by equal treatment. this clarifies the current definition and prevents large, powerful corporations from using our infrastructure in europe for free. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for this comment. i can only say that this text is quite clear: 'provide operators of internet access services with no means of circumventing the general prohibition on blocking, slowing down, altering, limiting, interfering, damaging or discriminating against certain content, applications or services or certain categories thereof.' i think this is groundbreaking. you haven't even gotten this far in america. i believe that the european regulation is a model for global development and thus gives the internet a new security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is very positive - thank you, mr juncker - that this meeting took place on a sunday, because the future of europe really lies in those who have to decide sitting at a table and not building barbed wire fences against each other, but negotiating solutions together at a table. you are right, mr junker, when you say that this should be the normal case. i'm afraid that's not it yet. it is necessary that there be support, also for the countries which are not yet in the european union, such as those in the balkans. people's lives are at stake, especially now that winter is coming. it's refugees coming, fleeing from bombs. what is missing, however - and this has probably also become clear - is that what the member states have promised is actually being implemented. the european union has a duty to help the refugees in the countries of the former yugoslavia. it is up to you, mr tusk, to put pressure on the members of the council and say: you must do this. a common asylum system would be necessary, and now, so that we do not... (the president cut the speaker off) (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the current migration of peoples from the african continent to europe is one of the few examples where a strong international community of states is really needed, first of all to ensure that peace can take place in the region. the second is to guarantee first aid points for people in need of protection and assistance in the region, and the third is to create safe zones in the region - that would be the task of a strong community of states. the european union is doing the exact opposite: it seems that the decision-makers of the european union are almost like a chicken coop, playing around and unable to make a clear decision here. the two who have caused all the chaos, chancellor merkel, who said, towards arabia and africa, you can all come, and then the austrian chancellor faymann, who is smuggling everyone through austria, are the main culprits. i say that those who make really good policies are those who recognise that everyone has a priority obligation to take care of his own countrymen in his own country and not a migration of peoples.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased about this initiative by the commission, which needs all our support. i have been on the balkan route several times in these weeks, in gevgelija, preševo and passau. when you look at the people, you see people exhausted, desperate, you see a lot of hustle, you see a frightening pace. in passau alone, 7,000 people cross the border every day. this looks like exodus. i think we need to slow down, we need to calm down these developments. i am particularly concerned here about providing immediate and generous aid to the countries of origin, about the efficient and human rights-compliant design of the hotspots at the external borders and about the urgent need to create winter quarters along the balkan route.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. reception centres, hotspots, joint border guards, all previously empty slogans! the fact is that the union has failed and overslept! no protection of the external borders! schengen has failed. a loss of confidence in our citizens that is catastrophic. the state sovereignty is being destroyed when more than 1 million refugees are illegally pouring into central europe, and this largely unchecked and unregistered. ladies and gentlemen, this is an invasion, this is a land grab! because 70 to 80% are young men, as heralds for their families, looking for the promised land, mainly in germany, austria, sweden and so on. and that's no wonder, given that minimum wage is more than the average salary of an academic in syria or afghanistan. ladies and gentlemen, this is an avalanche, and nice words, kind words, won't help. clear action is needed.
in writing. the events of the past few weeks make it increasingly clear: the refugee crisis calls for a pan-european solution. the problem of shifting from one state to another, as has happened in the case of hungary, croatia, serbia and slovenia, only makes the situation worse both for the refugees and for the relations between the states. and neither bavaria nor austria will be able to solve the refugee problem on their own. i therefore call for more negotiations between the member states, as was done in the case of greece, with a view to a fair distribution of those seeking help. the european union must do everything it can to put an end to the war in syria, as i said last april, and this is now being increasingly implemented. it is not only welcome but essential that all parties to the conflict - those at the front and those behind the scenes - are involved in the negotiations. in addition to turkey and russia, iran must also take part in the discussions to be held in vienna next friday. i expressly support the active role played by the eu's high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, on behalf of the european union in the settlement of the war in the region.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because it is about repealing rules that are now obsolete. the report is purely technical.
in writing. ‒ it makes sense to add article 114 tfeu to the legal basis for repealing acts. the report was therefore to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because in recent years the bureaucratic burden has increased considerably and the burden on the competent authorities and farmers has increased. the complexity has also crept in some errors that need to be eliminated. the present procedure therefore appears to be purely technical, but it also seems to me to be a step towards the process of de-bureaucratisation.
in writing. ‒ it makes sense to add article 114 tfeu to the legal basis for repealing acts. the report was therefore to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. it is based on the agreement that provides for the automatic exchange of information on the bank accounts of their respective customers between the eu and switzerland as of 2018. this measure is intended to help better identify tax avoidance, tax evasion and fraud through black money accounts. the aim is to help national tax authorities to obtain information in a more regulated, comprehensive and transparent way, and to avoid having to rely on legal grey areas (such as tax cds).
in writing. ‒ the report/proposal aims to identify situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal from the tax authorities capital in the form of income or assets for which no taxes have been paid. the report proposes amendments which make this even more consistent. the report was therefore approved.
in writing. ‒ the report states that switzerland will have to automatically exchange all information on bank accounts from 2018. this measure is intended to help better identify tax avoidance, evasion and fraud through black money accounts. the aim is to help the tax authorities to obtain this information in a more regular, comprehensive and transparent manner. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report/proposal aims to identify situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal from the tax authorities capital in the form of income or assets for which no taxes have been paid. the report proposes amendments which make this even more consistent. the report was therefore approved.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report, as the rapporteur is quite correct in her argument with regard to the agreements with switzerland and other tax havens. the commission's proposals are also in line with refit, the programme to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of eu legislation. this can then lead to a clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework that promotes growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur has identified points to be taken into account when repealing the directive. the commission's reporting obligation towards parliament should lead to loopholes through the repeal is particularly welcome. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i see the repeal of the interest rate directive as part of the fight against tax evasion and tax havens.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur has identified points to be taken into account when repealing the directive. the commission's reporting obligation towards parliament should lead to loopholes through the repeal is particularly welcome. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data is absolutely necessary for crime prevention and counter-terrorism. such data exchange enables national security authorities to intervene in a timely manner and thus to increase the general sense of security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it can bring significant progress in the field of crime prevention and the fight against terrorism. it's basically an exchange of fingerprints. the current flow of refugees, which is already affecting europe as a whole, suggests that progress can also be made in the fight against the abuse of asylum.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data is absolutely necessary for crime prevention and counter-terrorism. such data exchange enables national security authorities to intervene in a timely manner and thus to increase the general sense of security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it can bring significant progress in the field of crime prevention and the fight against terrorism. it's basically an exchange of fingerprints. the current flow of refugees, which is already affecting europe as a whole, suggests that progress can also be made in the fight against the abuse of asylum.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data is absolutely necessary for crime prevention and counter-terrorism. such data exchange enables national security authorities to intervene in a timely manner and thus to increase the general sense of security of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it can bring significant progress in the field of crime prevention and the fight against terrorism. it's basically an exchange of fingerprints. the current flow of refugees, which is already affecting europe as a whole, suggests that progress can also be made in the fight against the abuse of asylum.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes the fight against terrorism and crime prevention. the automated exchange will simplify the prosecution of offenders. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the package travel directive, we have a much-needed update of the 25 year old legislation in this area. too often, flights, hotels and car rentals are bought with a single click on the internet, and when one of the services fails, sellers are happy to claim that they were merely intermediaries. this can't be. our citizens deserve better protection when they book different travel services with one provider. as social democrats we support the idea of holding travel agencies responsible if parts of the package purchased from them are not delivered. i am in favour of consumer protection and therefore fully support the directive.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the package travel directive, we have a much-needed update of the 25 year old legislation in this area. too often, flights, hotels and car rentals are bought with a single click on the internet, and when one of the services fails, sellers are happy to claim that they were merely intermediaries. this can't be. our citizens deserve better protection when they book different travel services with one provider. as social democrats we support the idea of holding travel agencies responsible if parts of the package purchased from them are not delivered. i am in favour of consumer protection and therefore fully support the directive.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the package travel directive, we have a much-needed update of the 25 year old legislation in this area. too often, flights, hotels and car rentals are bought with a single click on the internet, and when one of the services fails, sellers are happy to claim that they were merely intermediaries. this can't be. our citizens deserve better protection when they book different travel services with one provider. as social democrats, we support the idea of holding travel agencies responsible if parts of the package you have purchased are not delivered. i am in favour of consumer protection and therefore fully support the directive.
in writing. ‒ the epp delegation in the ep rejected the efdd amendment because we have achieved improvements for smes and increased consumer protection. i was aware of the problems facing the catering and hospitality industry and, through constant communication with the rapporteur, mrs collin-langen, the wkö, consumer advocates and other stakeholders, i have been able to raise the concerns of the industry. as president of the sme intergroup, i organised an event with hotrec to discuss the concerns of the domestic catering and hospitality industry openly. the full burden of a balanced, workable directive was on the ep, because the austrian federal government did not have a common negotiating position and therefore fell out of the decision-making process. to be against it is not enough. the ep has succeeded in getting a package to be justified only if the tourist service represents at least 25% of the total package. the clarification of what does not fall under tourist services is also a success. the commission will review after three years how the directive, and in particular the 'click-through' provision, has been implemented and whether changes are necessary. the directive has been subject to some criticism, but uncertainties remain due to the lack of a clear definition and the low percentage of tourist services. political leeway must now be used to the best of our ability to ensure a viable implementation for the catering and hospitality industry in austria.
in writing. ‒ my rejection of the efdd amendment is based on the need for improvements for smes and consumer protection. i know the problems of the hotel and catering industry and i take them very seriously: in order to take account of the interests of these industries, i have been in close contact with the rapporteur, mrs collin-langen. in addition, i discussed with numerous stakeholders from the wko, consumer protection and representatives of the industries concerned. since no common position could be reached at national government level, the responsibility lay with the european parliament alone. we have now succeeded in making a package holiday only a package holiday when the tourist service represents at least 25% of the total package holiday. the commission has also proposed that the exemptions for tourist services be clearly defined and regulated. we are on the right track! the ec's review after three years will show how the directive has actually been implemented and whether further adjustments will be necessary. in any case, in the political discourse i will continue to advocate implementation in the sense of the catering and hotel industry, in particular with regard to increasing the percentage of tourist services in the total package.
in writing. ‒ while the report improves the legal position of holidaymakers, it does so at the expense of disproportionately high additional burdens, especially on small and medium-sized travel operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report does improve the legal position of holidaymakers, but only at the expense of disproportionately high additional burdens, especially on small and medium-sized tour operators.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the package travel directive, we have a long overdue revision of the 25 year old legislation. flights, hotels and car rentals are increasingly bought with a single click on the internet, and when one of the services fails, sellers are happy to claim that they were merely intermediaries. this can't be. our citizens deserve better protection when they book different travel services with one provider. as social democrats we support the idea of holding travel agencies responsible if parts of the package purchased from them are not delivered. i am in favour of consumer protection and therefore fully support the directive.
in writing. ‒ while the report improves the legal position of holidaymakers, it does so at the expense of disproportionately high additional burdens, especially on small and medium-sized travel operators.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the package travel directive, we have a much-needed update of the 25 year old legislation in this area. too often, flights, hotels and car rentals are bought with a single click on the internet, and when one of the services fails, sellers are happy to claim that they were merely intermediaries. this can't be. our citizens deserve better protection when they book different travel services with one provider. as a social democrat, i support the idea of holding travel agencies responsible if parts of the package purchased from them are not delivered. i am in favour of consumer protection and therefore fully support the directive.
in writing. ‒ while parliament was able to achieve substantial improvements in the first reading negotiations, including the introduction of net neutrality in addition to the abolition of roaming, the current report does not include these improvements. the final version now again provides for both the maintenance of a kind of 'roaming' and the authorisation of so-called special services on the 'open internet'. it was agreed that the quality of the regular internet connection should not suffer in terms of bandwidth and speed, but that special services should be given priority as 'pay-for-priority' services in return for payment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the report thus fails to take up the position which parliament has already adopted on several occasions in various resolutions on net neutrality. at the same time, the regulation does not provide more legal certainty, but raises more (legal) questions than it solves by law.
in writing. ‒ while parliament was able to achieve substantial improvements in the first reading negotiations, including the introduction of net neutrality in addition to the abolition of roaming, the current report does not include these improvements. the final version now again provides for both the maintenance of a kind of 'roaming' and the authorisation of so-called special services on the 'open internet'. while it was agreed that the quality of the regular internet connection should not suffer in terms of bandwidth and speed, special services could be routed through the network as a 'pay-for-priority' service in return for payment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the report thus fails to take up the position which parliament has already adopted on several occasions in various resolutions on net neutrality. at the same time, the regulation does not provide more legal certainty, but raises more (legal) questions than it solves legally.
in writing. ‒ while parliament was able to achieve substantial improvements in the first reading negotiations, including the introduction of net neutrality in addition to the abolition of roaming, the current report does not include these improvements. the final version now again provides for both the maintenance of a kind of 'roaming' and the authorisation of so-called special services on the 'open internet'. it was agreed that the quality of the regular internet connection should not suffer in terms of bandwidth and speed, but that special services should be given priority as 'pay-for-priority' services in return for payment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the report thus fails to take up the position which parliament has already adopted on several occasions in various resolutions on net neutrality. at the same time, the regulation does not provide more legal certainty, but raises more (legal) questions than it solves legally.
in writing. ‒ net neutrality aims to ensure that all internet traffic is treated equally without discrimination, restriction or disadvantage, and regardless of sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application. the basic principle of net neutrality is considered indispensable, in particular for consumers and start-ups. services, innovation, research and development are directly dependent on such net neutrality. this principle is to be supported, as is this report.
in writing. ‒ the internet has become a thoroughly commercialised space, dominated by competition and the status quo, as opposed to collaboration and innovation. the decision of the eu parliament to further relax the principle of net neutrality therefore supports this negative development in my view. this decision not only weakens small start-ups which can no longer compete with the large financially strong owners of important infrastructure, but above all european start-ups themselves, which do not have the risk capital that is provided in the usa, for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the amendments by my alde group colleague marietje schaake on net neutrality. these motions, which i also co-signed, were intended to restore parliament's strong position at first reading. in its original position, parliament envisaged introducing stronger net neutrality rules at the european level. unfortunately, the member states were too opposed and we were unable to assert our position in the trilogue negotiations. the reason for this is not the lack of motivation on the part of the members of parliament, but their knowledge that such a position would never lead to an agreement with the member states. although the european parliament has not been able to make all its demands known in the negotiations, the results achieved take us a great step forward towards completing the internal telecommunications market. the biggest success is the abolition of all roaming charges for travellers in the eu, whether for calls, texts or mobile data, from 15 june 2017. this achievement was also met with considerable resistance from the member states and was achieved, in particular, thanks to a strong campaign by the liberals in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i was clear in this vote on net neutrality and voted for it. i'm all for an open internet. it is also necessary to ensure that all traffic is treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or prejudice, and regardless of the sender and the recipient, or the nature, content or application.
in writing. ‒ while parliament was able to achieve substantial improvements in the first reading negotiations, including the introduction of net neutrality in addition to the abolition of roaming, the current report does not include these improvements. the final version now again provides for both the maintenance of a kind of 'roaming' and the authorisation of so-called special services on the 'open internet'. while it was agreed that the quality of the regular internet connection should not suffer in terms of bandwidth and speed, special services could be routed through the network as a 'pay-for-priority' service in return for payment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the report thus fails to take up the position which parliament has already adopted on several occasions in various resolutions on net neutrality. at the same time, the regulation does not provide more legal certainty, but raises more (legal) questions than it solves legally.
in writing. ‒ the internet has become a thoroughly commercialised space, dominated by competition and the status quo, as opposed to collaboration and innovation. the decision of the eu parliament to further relax the principle of net neutrality therefore supports this negative development in my view. this decision not only weakens small start-ups which can no longer compete with the large financially strong owners of important infrastructure, but above all european start-ups themselves, which do not have the risk capital that is provided in the usa, for example.
in writing. ‒ while parliament was able to achieve substantial improvements in the first reading negotiations and even to enshrine net neutrality in law in addition to the abolition of roaming, the current report no longer contains these improvements. the final version now again provides for both the maintenance of a kind of 'roaming' and the authorisation of so-called special services on the 'open internet'. while it was agreed that the quality of the regular internet connection should not suffer in terms of bandwidth and speed, special services could be routed through the network as a 'pay-for-priority' service in return for payment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the report thus fails to take up the position which parliament has already adopted on several occasions in various resolutions on net neutrality. at the same time, the regulation does not provide more legal certainty, but raises more (legal) questions than it solves legally.
in writing. ‒ the report is rejected. it leads to a disproportionate extension of the scope of the provision. at the same time, it places an excessive burden on producers and exporters and increases the control burden on the authorities.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to torture and torture methods and to the goods used for such purposes, and i condemn any use of them. the report goes too far, however, by giving the commission more powers and putting extra burdens on exporters and customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ while the report on trade in certain goods that could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment does make it more difficult to market goods that can cause human suffering, it does not make it easier to identify and identify the goods that could be used for torture or other treatment or punishment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. i have abstained because the discrepancy between the better handling of certain goods which can be used for the execution of the death penalty and the practicability and the increase in bureaucracy in this report is too great.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to torture and torture methods and to the goods used for such purposes, and i condemn any use of them. the report goes too far, however, by giving the commission more powers and putting extra burdens on exporters and customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ the european union has long been committed to the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. in order to achieve this objective, it is also necessary to eliminate any support measures which would mean the continuation of the death penalty. as a human rights defender, i wholeheartedly support this proposal. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. no member state may export medicinal products which could be used in third countries for the purpose of capital punishment. nor can a member state participate in the supply of technical equipment for torture or killing. it is essential to draw up an action plan to respond as quickly as possible to current developments in the use of funds.
in writing. ‒ an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings is a major step forward in the prevention of aggressive tax planning and unfair tax competition. this leads to more transparency, with the result that profits are ultimately taxed where they are generated. this approach is in the right direction and i therefore agree with it.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a public directory where all information is accessible to all eu citizens is strongly opposed. that is why i did not approve this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it goes too far and gives the commission even more powers. in addition, there is an additional burden on exporters and customs authorities. the commission is also proposing to set up a public register where all information is available to all citizens at any time. i think that this report goes too far and is not acceptable to me in this form.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a public directory where all information is accessible to all eu citizens is strongly opposed. that is why i did not approve this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the resolution sets out the problems quite clearly, but the decision taken on the basis of the problems is not comprehensible. i therefore cannot accept it.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the problems well, but does not indicate which decision should be taken on the basis of this description. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on this report and the related discharge, as the problems of the company are quite clearly set out. however, the next steps are not clearly traceable, so there is a lack of convincing ideas on how to solve the problem.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the problems well, but does not indicate which decision should be taken on the basis of this description. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the resolution sets out the problems quite clearly, but the decision taken on the basis of the problems is not comprehensible. i therefore do not think that a positive vote is possible.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the problems well, but does not indicate which decision should be taken on the basis of this description. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report and the related discharge, as the institute does produce positive results for the european scientific landscape. at the same time, the waste of money that is also taking place here is being treated too uncritically.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the problems well, but does not indicate which decision should be taken on the basis of this description. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the resolution sets out the problems quite clearly, but the decision taken on the basis of the problems is not comprehensible. i therefore do not think that a positive vote is possible.
in writing. ‒ since the rapporteur attests to the company's sound use of resources, i can only agree to the discharge of the company.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge resolution: eniac joint undertaking is a good representation of the joint undertakings' issues and makes clear the shortcomings. the decisions taken on the basis of this resolution alone are unfortunately not comprehensible. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the resolution, because i welcome its critical and revealing nature.
in writing. ‒ since the rapporteur attests to the company's sound use of resources, i can only agree to the discharge of the company.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out clearly the problems of a discharge for the council. the council must become more democratic and more open in its spending and, above all, must abandon the practice of allocating ever smaller budgets and then massively increasing them for various projects. the resolution is therefore to be welcomed and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out clearly the problems of a discharge for the council: it must become more democratic and more open in its spending and, above all, abandon the practice of always wanting less budget and then massively increasing it for various projects afterwards. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the council's general budget for 2013 contained many items which i consider unnecessary and which were already indicative of a too careless handling of financial resources. this is not ultimately beneficial to the citizens of the union, but is at their expense and is therefore not sustainable. i voted against the budget because the way the budget was used in many places was not in the interests of the people.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out clearly the problems of a discharge for the council: it must become more democratic and more open in its spending and, above all, abandon the practice of always wanting less budget and then massively increasing it for various projects afterwards. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ according to the rapporteur, the countries affected by the ebola crisis (liberia, sierra leone and guinea) are economically in a continuing recession. this was different from before the crisis, when economic growth was 5%. the argument is now that more coordinated aid should be given to these countries to help them out of recession. this report is positive, given that the eu, together with its member states, is the largest donor of development aid in the world, providing more than eur 1.39 billion in financial assistance to help contain the ebola virus disease in west africa. the sooner the three economies mentioned above are able to generate sufficient funds again, the easier it will be to meet the health needs. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur states that the countries concerned (liberia, sierra leone and guinea) could have had an economic growth of 5% before the outbreak of ebola, but are now in recession. the report should be supported if these countries are to grow again and subsequently establish their own research facilities.
in writing. ‒ the report made suggestions for future action against the epidemic, as well as against certain other bacterial diseases. i voted in favour of this report because every year around 700 000 people die worldwide from infections caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria. in addition, before the outbreak of ebola, the region had an economic growth rate of 5%, which was dramatically reduced by the disease. so, in addition to the terrible personal fates, the fight against ebola can also be seen from a national economic perspective. the report states that research in this area is particularly important and therefore worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur states that the countries concerned (liberia, sierra leone and guinea) could have had an economic growth of 5% before the outbreak of ebola, but are now in recession. the report should be supported if these countries are to grow again and subsequently establish their own research facilities.
in writing. ‒ there is no consensus on this, although it is in principle a balanced resolution with some good proposals to make the emissions testing process more independent and transparent.
in writing. ‒ basically a balanced resolution with some good proposals to make the examination procedure more independent and transparent. unfortunately, this is being used to give the european commission more powers, which is why we cannot agree to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of a directive setting national maximum levels for air pollutants. the environment must be protected because of the many illnesses and even deaths caused by air pollution each year. the report also calls for a reduction of the total cost of air pollution by eur 40 billion by 2030.
in writing. ‒ basically a balanced resolution with some good proposals to make the examination procedure more independent and transparent. unfortunately, this is being used to give the european commission more powers, which is why we cannot agree to it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should also like to thank the commission very much for its proposal. it's just important that we have this discussion on an equal footing. the council must in future coordinate itself better at political level so that when the negotiations begin there is a mandate to negotiate seriously with parliament accordingly. the european parliament naturally also attaches great importance to the fact that the question of the economy and employment must be given absolute priority, particularly in the programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, the cosme programme. we need the 16.5 million in new commitments, also for the employment initiative, especially for the unemployed, but also for refugees, so that new initiatives can be taken up here and so that dual training with apprentices is put at the centre. europe must be a model here, we must act here. it is very clear that we need to set new standards in this area, including, of course, in refugee policy. we must go through all the budget lines and see how we can help here, how we can achieve stability here, and how we can protect the area of legal stability in europe here. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the fact is that we have now made enormous savings in order not to increase the budget, that we are even below the 20% we normally get, and that despite the additional wishes of the new group, which burdens the taxpayer, we have managed to provide a reasonable and long-term budget. in connection with the staff remuneration we have and the limits of abuse that exist here, colleagues who do not want to take advantage of their opportunities should make public the staff they do not need. because if they're not around much and they're not working a lot, then of course they don't need employees. this would lead to enormous savings potentials.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you, mr president tajani. i have a question about the european innovation fund. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. do you think that this can really be the council's priority, that we should create new jobs in small and mediumsized enterprises?
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, what is the cost of not having a functioning, impeccable judiciary? the european court of justice is always passing judgments against very large, very powerful companies. one example is the recent max schrems ruling on data protection. we therefore need a judiciary at european level which is responsive and delivers high-quality, excellent judgments. the european parliament is trying to save a very bad council decision. yes, we need more judges, we know that in the european parliament. but do you want 28 more? this is to be checked very soon in the revision clause, which we are clearly and unequivocally calling for. and i would like to remind you of the example of gender parity. the european court of justice can play a pioneering role in this respect. there are so many excellent, excellent women judges, and this could really be a positive example for all the european institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. food safety is a top priority. when new food products are introduced into the market, we really need to be 100% sure that they do not present any risk whatsoever. we are creating a high level of consumer protection by using stricter criteria and comprehensive safety checks. a national patchwork carpet - i really want to emphasize this again - will not make sense in the future when it comes to authorizations, because we live in a single market and austrians must be afforded the same protection as citizens in bulgaria and the other countries of the european union. at the same time, we need legal certainty, especially for innovative domestic firms. the regulation of process innovation is particularly important. when it comes to saving energy and meeting environmental objectives, or when it comes to efficiently and carefully handling our raw materials, it is also important to rethink the entire process. innovation in food production will also help to secure food supplies in the future. we must also always see this in the context of the growing world population.
in writing. the european parliament's proposal to set new national emission ceilings for the main air pollutants is generally welcomed. however, it should be noted that better legislation and better monitoring at local level through optimised measurement techniques are urgently needed in view of emissions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. emissions do not stop at national borders, which is why overseas countries and maritime and air transport must also be made to pay. furthermore, individual countries should not be able to have flexibility in accounting for their emissions, as most member states will not achieve certain targets, in particular for nox emissions, within the specified time period. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. countries that fail to meet these thresholds are also at risk of infringement proceedings - which looks set to flourish in most member states.
in writing. ‒ this report should be rejected, since it is essentially intended to allocate funds to purposes for which the union has no mandate.
in writing. ‒ there is no indication that more money is to be spent. often for purposes for which the union does not even have a mandate. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 calls for more financial resources in many places for which the european union has no mandate. the report also includes further efforts towards a transfer union with the aim of investing more in neighbouring countries. i think it is more necessary that the funds should be used to help our own citizens and i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ there is no indication that more money is to be spent. often for purposes for which the union does not even have a mandate. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this report should be rejected, since it is essentially intended to allocate funds to purposes for which the union has no mandate.
in writing. ‒ there is no indication that more money is to be spent. often for purposes for which the union does not even have a mandate. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 calls for more financial resources in many places for which the european union has no mandate. the report also includes further efforts towards a transfer union with the aim of investing more in neighbouring countries. i think it is more necessary that the funds should be used to help our own citizens and i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ there is no indication that more money is to be spent. often for purposes for which the union does not even have a mandate. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this report should be rejected as it is aimed only at increasing the number of judges.
in writing. ‒ the freedom delegation is clearly opposed to an increase in the number of judges and to mandatory gender representation.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a doubling of the number of judges at the european court of justice. this effort paid off, as judges were not keeping up with their processes in 2011. the judges have now been able to make up their shortfall, which means that there is no longer any need to increase the number of judges. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the freedom delegation is clearly opposed to an increase in the number of judges and to mandatory gender representation.
in writing. ‒ the european court of justice is the main institution for the legal protection of european citizens. its decisions are the guiding light for the development of the european union as a whole. it is therefore necessary to provide the resources needed to handle the large number of cases in order to ensure high quality decisions. clearly, more judges are needed. at the same time, we must avoid unnecessary spending in times of tight finances. the proposal to double the number of judges is a compromise. it is therefore necessary and prudent to carry out an evaluation after five years and to adjust the number of judges where necessary. as social democrats, we have always been committed to gender equality. we therefore insist that the new posts be filled by the member states on a parity basis, with one woman and one man per country. at the moment, a case before the ecj takes between two and five years. that's clearly too long. the court of justice is too often threatened with actions for damages, which are too long and costly. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it. the functioning of the european judicial system must be a top priority.
in writing. ‒ the fpo is committed to promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at a level considered sustainable and with a low risk of stock collapse.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on the rules applicable to fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) convention area concerns the granting of derogations for the use of trawls and seines in the black sea. a derogation is contrary to the principle of sustainable fishing. that is why i would have voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am committed to promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of the living marine resources of the mediterranean and black seas, to a level considered sustainable and with a low risk of stock collapse.
in writing. ‒ member states should be able to decide for themselves whether or not to place genetically modified food on the market. this is a proposal put forward by the enf and is contained in this report. the introduction of genetically modified food should not be decided in brussels but should remain a prerogative of the individual member states. only in this way can governments ensure that the rights of their citizens are protected. the diversity of the peoples of europe and their individual desires in such matters as consumer protection, food quality, food processing, etc., is not a matter which should be regulated across borders. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a member state has to decide for itself whether to allow genetically modified food and feed. i am opposed to the use of genetically modified food and feed, and therefore i do not support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the use of genetically modified food has not been supplemented with important points such as the self-determination of member states regarding the import of genetically modified food. the member states' powers to decide on the import of genetically modified food will thus be further restricted. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ a member state has to decide for itself whether to allow genetically modified food and feed. i am opposed to the use of genetically modified food and feed, and therefore i do not support this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report, as it is expected that cloned meat will also come within the scope of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of amendments has led to food from cloned animals also falling within the scope of this regulation. it is absolutely unacceptable that this should force member states to allow food and feed from cloned animals on their territory. i therefore do not approve of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods also includes cloned meat in its scope. the report also opposes the placing on the market of nanomaterials in food and feed, but it also allows the import of cloned meat. i am opposed to this and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of amendments has led to food from cloned animals also falling within the scope of this regulation. it is absolutely unacceptable that this should force member states to allow food and feed from cloned animals on their territory. i therefore do not approve of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report must be rejected. measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus threaten food security in the face of increased global demand for food. the setting of reduction targets for methane is "not appropriate". this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision. in addition, the eu commission's impact assessment study clearly shows that implementation is associated with high costs.
in writing. ‒ setting reduction targets for methane is not appropriate. this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision. overly stringent measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus jeopardise food security in the face of increased global demand for food. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec aims to tackle the transboundary problems of air pollution. i am generally in favour of a more sustainable approach to our natural environment, including a reduction in air pollutants. however, other requirements limit the competitiveness of our companies, which is why i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ a binding reduction target for methane is not appropriate. this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision. overly stringent measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus jeopardise food security in the face of increased global demand for food. i was therefore unfortunately forced to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because the proposals it contains represent a significant improvement on the current legal situation for the european citizens' initiative. the eib is an instrument first introduced by the lisbon treaty to enable citizens to participate directly in politics. it allows national issues and concerns to be dealt with at european level, as citizens can get the european commission to address a specific issue.
in writing. ‒ the proposals are a significant improvement on the current legal situation on ecis. it will remove obstacles that have previously been problematic for european citizens' initiatives. the way the european citizens' initiative works will become more user-friendly. i therefore approve the report.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative report is intended to improve the possibilities for the citizens' initiative procedure. the report does contain some good suggestions for improving this procedure, but unfortunately it does not go far enough. the efforts to make the process of citizens' initiatives simpler and more transparent are a good approach, but they do not make citizens' initiatives more visible. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the proposals are a significant improvement on the current legal situation on ecis. it will remove obstacles that have previously been problematic for european citizens' initiatives. the way the european citizens' initiative works will become more user-friendly. i therefore approve the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is built on its citizens. it should act in their interest and for their benefit. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions in this area. however, the figures provided by the commission show that the use of the citizens' initiative has been declining since its introduction. initiators must be supported in launching citizens' initiatives. this means, on the one hand, reducing bureaucratic hurdles and, on the other hand, supporting the application of the initiative concerned. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. i therefore support the efforts to improve the citizens' initiative instrument and make it a successful instrument of participation.
in writing. ‒ this report is worthy of support, as it makes a number of useful proposals for regional development, particularly in terms of environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ an early warning system to prevent natural or industrial disasters, as well as disasters caused by transport and other activities, such as floods, fires and extraction of raw materials in the adriatic, and the improvement of transport infrastructure are important changes. the report makes mostly sensible environmental policy proposals for the development of the region. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region calls for a sustainable management of the region's marine resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ an early warning system to prevent natural or industrial disasters, as well as disasters caused by transport and other activities, such as floods, fires and extraction of raw materials in the adriatic, and the improvement of transport infrastructure are important changes. the report makes mostly sensible environmental policy proposals for the development of the region. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. it is not very critical of the actual shortcomings of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the report overlooks the shortcomings of cohesion policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore do not approve of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy unfortunately expresses little criticism of the actual shortcomings of cohesion policy. i am opposed to this lack of criticism and recognition of facts, and to the budgetary inflation called for in the report.
in writing. ‒ the report overlooks the shortcomings of cohesion policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore do not approve of the report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report, although it appears to bring improvements and efficiency gains. it is not, however, a change in cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the report raises some legitimate criticisms. the commission has also proposed a number of improvements and a greater degree of efficiency. however, the report does not bring about any change in cohesion policy, which we oppose. i therefore do not approve this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance, while at first sight providing improvements and efficiency gains, does not change the related deficits in cohesion policy. it is a question of the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the report raises some legitimate criticisms. the commission has also proposed a number of improvements and a greater degree of efficiency. however, the report does not bring about any change in cohesion policy, which we oppose. i therefore do not approve this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we wanted to discuss today the issue of smart borders and thus also in the original planning about modern technology, it details and travel facilitation for frequent travelers. but now the reality of the management of the eu's external borders, or the non-existence of the management of the eu's external borders, is moving towards stupid borders, namely very old border security methods. hungary has already built a fence, slovenia, austria and germany are thinking about it. while in germany only local politicians dream about this nonsense, in austria it is the minister of the interior who seriously believes that she can win a few populist votes here in this way. not long ago we celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and the fall of the iron curtain. and now we're seriously going to build fences and walls again in 2015? it did not help then and only brought suffering and it will not help now. our schengen system is seriously threatened, and so is the free movement of persons, which is a great achievement. if we fail to actually find a way for people to legally seek asylum outside the eu's borders, then people will continue to come and will continue to try to simply and painfully cross fences to gain a foothold on eu soil in some way. the money used here for alibi campaigns should be used to build and secure refugee camps in turkey, jordan and lebanon. we can build walls there, walls to protect the war refugees. walls that might allow people to stay closer to home. that would actually help in our situation. in this sense, i also support the approach of using the money budgeted for smart borders and the money not used in this context in the current crisis and thus supporting the coordination of mediterranean activities, but also activities along the balkan route. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i just think the same thing is that fences, borders, in this form of walls, and shooting orders are not the way to go. not in the gdr 30 or 40 years ago, and not today in 2015, mrs von storch. i think you'll agree with that.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council! thank you for your answers. it is imperative that europe draws conclusions from the events of the recent past. one of these consequences is, of course, the safeguarding of the european space. we know that the largest number of people who are illegally in europe are already overstaying their permitted period of residence, and we must therefore introduce appropriate controls. the two-pillar smart borders package therefore has my full support and that of the european people's party. i believe that the preservation of data protection is of course an integral part of this project. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's citizens is guaranteed. so the effort is worthwhile. and of course, linking it to other tasks, such as facilitating the prosecution of serious criminals and terrorists, is both useful and supportive. i therefore believe that it is necessary to move this work of the smart borders package into the implementation phase as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. better control of the movement of goods across europe's borders? i am not quite sure that you are serious about this discussion, because we are now in a situation where there is no control at all on the border. i think that at the present time it is even cynical to talk about smart borders, because what we really need are hard borders, dear colleagues. if you look at the situation in austria, particularly the situation in southern austria, in styria, in spielfeld - i was there last sunday - where thousands of refugees are now crossing every day, it is no longer a question of legal border traffic. the refugees are breaking through without any registration. the situation on the ground is unbearable for the people and has completely got out of the hands of the austrian federal government. the austrian federal government is no longer even able to protect its own territory. some are even calling the federal government a smuggler, and law and order is being overridden and we're talking about smart borders? it's not going to change anytime soon, so don't get any illusions about it.
i have to say, madam president, the nsa inquiry was certainly one of the highlights of the last parliamentary term of the old parliament. it has not only brought new results but, above all, it has strengthened the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions. i think it is therefore necessary to continue this very young tradition of this house. to strengthen citizens' trust in the internet by means of legal regulations, so that european data in third countries will also have the same protection. this political insight was confirmed by the safe harbor ruling. we must not now turn our backs on the agenda and close our eyes, but fill the vacuum that has now arisen with content. citizens, consumers and businesses have the right to security. we need to take consistent action. i think that the report by claude moraes shows this line in the tradition of this parliament, and i hope that the council and the commission can share this vision.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to thank mr schwab, because it is also about how we shape the future. i wanted to ask him how he sees the effect of incentives for employment and for small and mediumsized enterprises, especially for business start-ups, and whether this could possibly be incorporated in this european semester.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. budgetary policy is always a work programme based on figures. the european semester gives the commission the opportunity to publicly point out the wounds caused by the contradiction between objectives and action. the european semester is not a substitute for the development of monetary union into fiscal, economic and social union. it does not replace the creation of a european finance minister, it does not replace the implementation of the president's document on the future of european budgetary policy and economic and social union. it is not a substitute for implementing all the decisions we have taken in this house, in the council and in the commission. i feel that there is always too much lack of seriousness. on the sven giegold website, we can read that so far only seven of 528 country-specific recommendations have been fully implemented. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. the political will to implement the decisions is still lacking in too many countries. the barriers to the single market are still being defended. i therefore call for an implementation strategy, an enforcement strategy and a report on each member state on what is being done with the country-specific recommendations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every year, when it comes to the european semester, we have a very similar, almost identical, discussion here. we social democrats want a change of direction, a radical change: away from a unilateral policy of austerity, towards a balanced economic and financial policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more so-called zero-hour contracts - my colleague has already mentioned this - or other forms of precarious employment do not solve the problem, they lead to increasing poverty instead of work and to people turning away from europe. it is good that the employment indicators are taken into account in the macroeconomic imbalance mechanism, but there is a lack of social indicators, for example on combating poverty and social exclusion. in short, we need an immediate change of direction. social and employment policies must be as binding as fiscal and economic policies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's spring 2015 economic forecast projects growth of 2.1% for the european union and 1.9% for the euro area. economic growth is a key driver on which the four main priorities of the 2015 csrs focus. these are the promotion of investment, the implementation of structural reforms, job creation and responsible fiscal policy - in other words, growth-oriented fiscal consolidation. but the member states are hardly following it. we have already heard today that almost 11% of the country-specific recommendations are being implemented, even though the data on which the country-specific recommendations are based come from the member states, namely, are introduced by the council in the annual growth report. it is therefore sensible that the rapporteur should now focus in the report and say that there must be a stronger focus on the core priorities and that there must be an earlier publication of the country-specific recommendations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i come from austria, a country often cited as a positive example when it comes to longterm unemployment. the 1.5 per cent longterm unemployment rate is of course too high for us, but compared with greece, where we are talking about 19.5 per cent, it is much better. so longterm unemployment has a lot to do with the crisis. those countries that are beset by crises have the highest long-term unemployment rates. but of course, in austria, not everything is so rosy. we also have the highest unemployment in the world since the second world war. but i would like to point out one element which is particularly positive and which is also very good for a percentage of the longterm unemployed and which should therefore be tackled much more intensively at european level, and which should also be put on paper and put into practice - and that is social partnership. we have collective agreements covering the whole of the community, and if employers and workers really sit down and negotiate seriously, then they can also solve the problem of longterm unemployment better. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. i 'll tell you what . i don't want to interfere in danish internal politics. i only know what elements are certainly good at european level, and that clearly includes the social partnership.
thank you very much. i would like to make a brief statement: i am assuming that there will be only one or two speakers per group for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, and those who have not spoken before in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 29 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the europe 2020 strategy: prospects and balance sheet (2015/2904 ((rsp)).
before i give the floor to the first speaker for the epp group, i should like to point out that, because of the time, i will no longer accept 'blue cards' because otherwise the sitting will last much longer than until 11 p.m. and we do not want that.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! europe 2020 is a strategy from 2010 that was designed to create sustainable, inclusive and smart growth. in time for the interim review, an evaluation of the five key areas of employment, research and development, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction was carried out in the framework of a public consultation last year. unfortunately, we have to say that this evaluation did not come to a very good result, because on some key points europe is not doing very well at the moment at the half-time. there is a need for action if we are to catch up. the first is the employment rate: 75% is the target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not worsened. it's not so bad for research and development, but it's not so good for climate targets, greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. here too, the utmost effort is required. perhaps we can now set binding targets at the cop21 in paris. similarly, little has been done to reduce poverty. the same is true of the number of university degrees: the figure of 40% has not been reached. we need action. let us act.
the commission has already done so. since the financial crisis at the latest, it has become clear that transparency and control need to be improved not only in the traditional banking sector but also in the shadow banking sector. shadow banks now handle a quarter of the financial assets in the global financial system and therefore a large part of the securities financing business. increased transparency and reporting of securities financing transactions as envisaged in this report will help to reduce systemic risk, will help to reduce the risk of contagion to the regulated banking sector in the event of shadow banking failure, will help to increase transparency for investors and supervisors and regulators by establishing a central securities financing transaction reporting system, as credit institutions and listed companies will publish securities financing transactions in their annual reports. the rapporteur has paid great attention to keeping the operational costs of these new reporting and transparency obligations to a minimum. the new rules and standards will also draw on existing otc derivatives infrastructures and processes. that is better regulation, and for that the rapporteur is to be thanked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. smes are always about taking in more than they sell. it is not always easy because consumers are often difficult, very picky, and that is why the point is that an sme cannot always generate the same returns. this is why it is important that the public sector also shares the risk with smes. on the one hand, if you tax profits and wages, you must also be prepared to invest in this risk which small and mediumsized enterprises have to bear. in the end, 60% of liquidity problems are caused by late payments. i would ask commissioner dombrovskis in particular to analyse the european union and the european union budget, and to examine how late payments are made in research programmes and in many other areas. i do not want to know how many smes have already gone bankrupt because the bureaucratic rules and administrative procedures are so complicated that small and mediumsized enterprises cannot obtain their liquidity and therefore do not do so. i would also like to point out that the joint research centre has now carried out a study on tax incentives, which are intended to lead to more private equity in companies. i think that would be an excellent public-private partnership for job creation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have done the right thing in creating a lot for smes, including the new european fund for strategic investments. but i very much welcome the fact that you have announced an evaluation of all existing banking regulations with their impact on the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises. the evaluation also includes national and regional legislative measures. this evaluation includes the review of the late payments directive and also includes the implementation of the small business act. the second point is, commissioner, that you have brought up the basle committee. you have indicated that the commission is an observer. i would ask you not to be just an observer but to become the spokesman and coordinator of the member states of the european union in the basel committee. because at the same time, we have to be careful that esma and eba don't make many of the measures we have created for smes more difficult by technical standards. the next step is the capital markets union, is the support for start-ups, is the securitisation, is the extension of access to finance for smes in addition to loans. but the most important capital is the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles and hurdles.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! access to finance for smes is a key driver of growth and employment in europe. 99% of europe's enterprises are smes. these companies generate 50% of industrial value added and 80% of new jobs in europe. smes are thus the backbone of the european economy. the european union is helping with initiatives but also acting as a co-investor. it is the resources of the structural funds that are helping smes in a significant way, it is the cosme programme, it is the sme instrument horizon 2020 and it is in particular the activities of the european investment bank, which has transferred over 20 billion euros in loans to smes in the last year. in this context, i welcome the commission's initiative announced today to evaluate the financial legislation for smes. it is certainly necessary. you should always be up to date, and this evaluation is also important. the conference on 14 december will also be important, but the evaluation is essential. 80% of sme financing comes from banks. this is important, but it needs to be expanded. europe needs alternative forms of financing, smes need alternative forms of financing, in particular venture and equity capital is necessary for start-ups and for growth companies, as well as the removal of bureaucratic obstacles.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but your answer was really a very technical one and does not address the concerns of the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a mere one-off event. and you can go out there and have your own personal opinion about it because it's life-altering. i would also like to make a passionate plea for the abolition of summer-time and winter-time and the whole change of time, because i am speaking for the people who are having a particularly difficult time and who do not have such a great lobby behind them, namely, on the one hand, commuters and on the other hand, students. many people are faced with the fact that school hours are not changed, for example, and then struggle to get up in the morning, are of course also forced to have heating and that we are naturally in the dark. i mean, this is also a plea that people don't have to get up so awfully early in the dark.
the commission has already done so. as you can see, there is outrage here, which goes through all the groups in this house, at the commission's inaction and also at the council's attitude. we demand an immediate review of the time change, the twice-yearly time change. we need a scientific, serious, well-founded review. what you're telling us is not exactly the quality of scientifically sound review. the commission is lax here! we have no advantage in the energy sector, we have high costs, and we have a whole host of expert reports and scientific studies, including from nine european universities, chronobiologists, medical professionals and professionals in every field, showing that there are enormous costs and risks to be feared. and we don't see that these risks are not being reviewed. the cause of europe is, of course, also other issues - we know this: migration, employment. but the health of the people and the waste of money are also part of the causa prima. we have the increase in road accidents. an austrian insurance company has claimed up to 48% more road accidents in the past week; that cannot be wiped away. i support the announcement by the eu commission president, juncker, to review eu regulations every few years to see if they are being implemented in a meaningful way. that didn't happen here. it's about time we got some action! please accept your responsibility. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the cepol agency with further financial and legal resources and to push for a merger of cepol and europol. it is not a sound approach, either financially or structurally, and that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ since the report aims to strengthen cepol with financial and legal means and calls for a merger of cepol and europol, i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, like many others before it, it further inflates the eu's overburdened agency system at the expense of taxpayers and further curtails national competences.
in writing. ‒ since the report aims to strengthen cepol with financial and legal means and calls for a merger of cepol and europol, i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the monitoring of financial markets without sacrificing the instruments needed by the real and financial economies. the amendments adopted as a whole provide for good overview and transparency measures. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report does not bring about substantial improvements in the monitoring and control of financial markets without sacrificing the instruments needed for the real and financial economy. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, i am in favour of transparency in the securities sector, as it ultimately has a positive impact on the protection of all economic operators. on the other hand, the measures must also be appropriate to promote this transparency. it must not be just more bureaucracy, with little practical benefit. this was the case here. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report does not bring about substantial improvements in the monitoring and control of financial markets without sacrificing the instruments needed for the real and financial economy. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it stresses the right to privacy for european citizens and condemns mass electronic surveillance.
in writing. ‒ the law and the protection of privacy were highlighted and mass electronic surveillance was condemned by renewing the resolution. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ two recent court decisions, i.e. retention of data and 'safe harbour', give us a closer look at the eu's legislative process. we are politicians, and of course political considerations are at the heart of our work. but this must not lead to eu or national legislation ignoring the fundamental rights of citizens. the protection of privacy and data protection is firmly anchored in our basic laws. our task is to protect them and not always have to go around the ecj to ensure this. our task as the european parliament is to ensure that protection, and i therefore call on all members to bear this in mind and to act accordingly. i therefore also urged in the vote that the negotiations on the eu data protection regulation be concluded quickly and that the council take account of the charter of fundamental rights so that we have a good basis for all further legislation.
in writing. ‒ electronic mass surveillance is an instrument that is incompatible with my conviction of civil liberties. i think it is outrageous to put millions of people under general suspicion per se. that is why i voted for this report and against mass surveillance.
in writing. ‒ the law and the protection of privacy are highlighted and mass electronic surveillance is condemned by renewing the resolution. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report strongly emphasises subsidiarity and supports the efforts needed to overcome the crisis above all structural reforms. the commission is also proposing that the member states, i.e. the national parliaments, should be more closely involved. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the principle of subsidiarity as emphasised in the report. unfortunately, the report also addresses areas where the eu has no competence, such as the regret that recommendations on environmentally harmful subsidies, environmental tax reform and the promotion of renewable energy have been dropped from the country-specific recommendations. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which does contain some positive aspects. however, this report also continues to promote the centralization of national industrial policies from brussels, which i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the principle of subsidiarity as emphasised in the report. unfortunately, the report also addresses areas where the eu has no competence, such as the regret that recommendations on environmentally harmful subsidies, environmental tax reform and the promotion of renewable energy have been dropped from the country-specific recommendations. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is constructive and provides a good basis for ideas to reintegrate the long-term unemployed into the labour market. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market is an important undertaking, as it is crucial to the economic prosperity of europe and the eu member states. it is particularly in times of crisis that the long-term unemployed must be supported by means of projects that are well-invested.
in writing. ‒ the long-term unemployed are in dire need of more support for their reintegration into the labour market. i have nevertheless abstained, because the issues which are important to me, such as the promotion of training, were significantly underrepresented.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market is an important undertaking, as it is crucial to the economic prosperity of europe and the eu member states. it is particularly in times of crisis that the long-term unemployed must be supported by means of projects that are well-invested.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. developing a uniform regulatory framework for the drone industry will directly lead to more investment and innovation. this means boosting the national economy, thereby safeguarding existing jobs and even creating new ones. a uniform regulatory approach in this area would also protect citizens from possible intrusions into their privacy. the report therefore appears to be proportionate and necessary. the commission has also taken the view that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ as the number of remote controlled flight systems in civil aviation is increasing, it makes sense to regulate their use accordingly. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is compatible with the internal market. the commission is therefore proposing to introduce appropriate incentives and regulations in this area.
in writing. ‒ remote piloted aircraft systems, known as drones, are increasingly coming into the public's eye, particularly in the field of civil aviation. i have agreed to the report in order to arrive at a uniform european regulation and to take a step towards legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ as the number of remote controlled flight systems in civil aviation is increasing, it makes sense to regulate their use accordingly. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is compatible with the internal market. the commission is therefore proposing to introduce appropriate incentives and regulations in this area.
in writing. ‒ this report must be rejected. it aims to create a fictitious 'destination europe' brand. it is completely ignored that the european continent is made up of the most diverse regions of individual european member states and other non-members of the union. the cultural and ethnic diversity of the peoples, as well as the enormous variety of their natural environments, counteract the attempt to homogenize all this. the european union has no significant competence in the field of tourism which would justify the creation of a tourism agency. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the diversity of our continent means that the motivations of tourists to holiday in each european country are quite different from one country to another. a brand 'europe' is therefore meaningless. the european union has no significant competence in the field of tourism which would justify the creation of such an agency. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ tourism is a mainstay of many austrian länder and must therefore be promoted. this cannot, however, be accompanied by an additional burden on farms, which is at least implicitly included in this report. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the diversity of our continent means that the motivations of tourists to holiday in each european country are quite different from one country to another. a brand 'europe' is therefore meaningless. the european union has no significant competence in the field of tourism which would justify the creation of such an agency. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this resolution as we are called upon today to identify weaknesses in the current air traffic control systems and, if technically possible, to close them as soon as possible. the aim is to locate aircraft in distress in time to enable effective search and rescue operations to be carried out. today, existing systems cover only about 30% of the world's airspace. the use of state-of-the-art technologies is therefore needed to enhance aviation safety, while at the same time removing existing regulatory barriers to satellite-based flight tracking systems to ensure the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the development of a performance-based global air traffic tracking system that allows air traffic controllers to determine the position of commercial aircraft at any time is, in my view, welcome as it represents an important approach to air traffic control.
in writing. ‒ the request for an oral answer on the development of satellite-based technology for global aircraft tracking systems seeks to address the unexplained disappearance of passenger aircraft, as has repeatedly occurred in the past, through a new global aircraft tracking technology. i would have voted for this new regulation, since the need for such a system is obvious.
in writing. ‒ the development of a performance-based global air traffic tracking system that allows air traffic controllers to determine the position of commercial aircraft at any time is, in my view, welcome as it represents an important approach to air traffic control.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. thank you, commissioner. the european semester for economic policy coordination was introduced four years ago alongside the europe 2020 strategy and is as ineffective in its implementation as that strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with review, i mentioned that the balance sheet of the europe 2020 strategy; the commission's autumn forecast shows that unemployment remains high at 9.8% in europe, investment in research and development is too low and there has been little progress in reducing poverty, which was the target of the 2020 strategy to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty to just under 100 million. we're a long way from that. the european semester's record is equally sobering: only 11% of the country-specific recommendations are being met. we have heard it: nine of the 28 member states are doing it. the review of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is deterring few member states from allowing such macroeconomic imbalances to happen. the same applies to possible measures in connection with a deficit procedure. here again, it can be observed that: some people make it easier. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we have heard this today, and the autumn forecast of the european commission has shown it: take ireland, take spain and portugal, here we are on a growth path, here we are going up again because the structural reforms have been implemented. this is not done in other countries - unfortunately - and because it is not done, the economy in europe will not go up. without structural reforms, without growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, we will not go forward, we will not have the growth that europe needs to get back on track internationally and to succeed and create jobs.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. how do you think international developments, for example the wto negotiations now in kenya, could contribute to the european semester when trade facilitation takes effect? could this not also lead to additional growth?
in writing. i support the majority of the joint motion for a resolution in this house because a stronger and, above all, more competitive eu aviation industry is of enormous importance and will ultimately have a positive impact on air passengers and the european economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't know if it was the translation that was wrong or if i misheard or if you welcomed the fact that someone who was obviously unpleasant to you was leaving the room? if the latter was the case, then i think you should apologize and be ashamed that you are here as president to assume a partisan function. if it wasn't, then it was obviously a mistranslation, so i have to apologize. but i want to know whether you stand by what you've allegedly said.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask mrs gebhardt the following question: if you're against zero-rating, are you also for the linking fees to be paid in the future? because you're now saying that you have to pay, that there's no zero-rating. so you're also in favor of paying for links, or am i misunderstanding?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not zero-rating is clearly a violation of net neutrality. it is clear that the arguments of the proponents of this regulation and those who have been railing against net neutrality in europe for a few weeks are not clear. they argue that consumers have a choice between different free tariffs. let's say that's true. they argue that there is competition among the telecommunications companies to offer the best rate. let's say that's true. then in every argument that you've made here, you ignore the third party, which is the services that provide the data, the companies that provide the services on the internet, and they're massively disadvantaged. there's a service, a service that buys itself zero-rating on a rate that's being passed on to t-mobile, vodafone or wherever it is to buy into the data volume. who can afford that? big corporations, big companies, and those that are already big, like google, youtube, facebook, companies like that, of that size. any small european start-up that starts now, that competes with these big companies now, will not be able to afford to enter into such a tariff and will automatically be at a competitive disadvantage. it is perverse that the parties that define themselves as pro-business and say they are doing all this in the interests of the economy, with this violation of net neutrality, are disadvantaging small, new european companies in favor of the big american corporations, in favor of the telecom companies, and thus promoting the big corporations that already exist and damaging all the small platforms that could be established in the coming years and decades. that's the problem. it is not just a problem of the end consumer and not a problem of competition between telecommunications companies. they have a blind eye there, and that's why it never comes up in this debate from the proponents of zero-rating and net neutrality. saying zero-rating is okay if it doesn't violate net neutrality is like the pope saying group sex is okay if it doesn't violate chastity. it's impossible, it's a violation of net neutrality. it's not a threat.
i would like to congratulate the commission and the council, mr president, on the fact that we have reached a conclusion on net neutrality. we have thus laid the foundations for an era for the next generation to improve communication behaviour in the future free of discrimination. i have put it on my home page because there is a lot of disinformation here too. you should really read the text of the regulation and see how much effort was made to regulate this area properly and fundamentally. some people in this house are now opposing free use by consumers, so in future consumers should pay twice for it, once for the use of the network and the second time then extra. that would mean to me that you are also against free linking. that would be contrary to reason. when i think of the fact that consumers with little money, and even with free use, also have access to the world of information, i cannot understand why we are not advocating zero-rating. and it's going to be extremely important, especially in developing countries, to create access for the poorest of the poor here, so that they can use the internet. if they don't have money, you want to shut them out? i think it's irresponsible.
in writing. zero-rating is a practice by mobile operators and telecommunications network providers to offer their end-users free of charge the data volume for specific services. this practice is used especially for 4g networks, but has also been offered in the past for sms and other internet services. zero-rating allows customers to use pre-selected content or data services, such as app stores, without having to pay attention to volume limits. the european parliament has allowed zero-rating under the telecoms package. the tsm regulation follows the principle of non-discriminatory data management to protect end-users. the main emphasis is on free use by the consumer! as regards transposition into national law, it is up to national regulators to allow zero-zating or not. the european regulatory authority (erec) now has nine months to issue guidelines to regulators in the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on monday, a new special meeting of european interior ministers took place with the aim of raising awareness among the member states of the european union of the refugee crisis. this is insufficient and inadequate in the face of the greatest crisis facing the european union. the commission's measures are also inadequate, since they do not contribute to a lasting solution to the crisis. there is no real protection of the eu's external borders. the frontex border agency has too few resources and too narrow a mandate. the european union's resettlement programme of 160 000 people is not very effective: 3500 places have been offered in the countries so far. the funds discussed today - i expressly welcome the allocation of funds - are not yet clear as to how much, when and what will be given. this is an untenable situation: the stabilization of the crisis centres is coming much too late, we have been told for a year by the unhcr, by the world food programme, that there is an urgent lack of money. as we speak, thousands of people are waiting to enter austria, my home country. over 400,000 people have been smuggled in since august. this is an untenable situation for the citizens, but also for the eu. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. people for whom the risk of flight was less than the hope of peace and a better life at home, set off. both of these trusts are a beacon of hope for these people. i therefore believe that the member states are being negligent and careless in their treatment of this hope and of their commitments. the fact that we are talking about 2.3 billion and 120 million is shameful and self-explanatory. i therefore demand that the repayment of the 9.4 billion be stopped! this money must be used to pay off the outstanding amounts and to pay for the necessary investments in growth and employment, in border security and in tackling the causes of displacement. that is the only way forward when the member states do not seem to know what they are doing.
in writing. ‒ the proposal negotiated in the trilogue is balanced and reflects in many respects the position of parliament without encroaching on the competences of the member states. parliament has particularly advocated data protection, net neutrality and a balanced financing and audit model, which has been widely adopted. that is why i am voting for the proposal.
in writing. ‒ interoperability is increasingly promoting the potential quality of public services and creating an environment of increased competition between businesses and greater satisfaction among citizens. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cooperation between the different member states is important in the context of the general modernisation of public administration in the eu and the community. the continuation of the modernisation of public authorities in the future will also be important. better governance needs to be promoted and cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction between administrations can bring citizens closer together in specific areas. another positive effect would be cost savings, increased efficiency, transparency and improved quality of public sector services.
in writing. ‒ interoperability is increasingly promoting the potential quality of public services and creating an environment of increased competition between businesses and greater satisfaction among citizens. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ while the proposed standardisation of some deadlines for submission, such as the submission of electoral lists or the demand for the same election day in all countries, is certainly worth supporting, i am opposed to the europeanisation of the eu elections envisaged here: national candidates will be replaced by eu candidates, eu-wide constituencies will be set up, eu parties will be on the lists as sending parties, and eu-wide top candidates will be provided. this proposal is completely flawed and will not increase the interest of the citizens in the elections and the eu in general. i therefore reject it.
in writing. ‒ a unification of the election day seems reasonable, as does a harmonisation of the deadlines. however, the report seems to have the intention of 'nationalising' the eu. we want a union of sovereign nation states, and for that reason i cannot agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i would very much welcome a reform of the electoral law, but i have spoken against this report because i am very sceptical about some of the points. an example of this would be the introduction of electronic voting. the risk of fraud and manipulation would be simply too great in this case.
in writing. ‒ a unification of the election day seems reasonable, as does a harmonisation of the deadlines. however, the report seems to have the intention of 'nationalising' the eu. we want a union of sovereign nation states, and for that reason i cannot agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ a strong and competitive european aviation industry not only in production but also in the operation of aircraft fleets will ultimately have a positive impact on passengers and the economy as a whole. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. despite all the sensible and correct proposals to strengthen the aviation industry, i abstain because easa is to be given the status of a common aviation authority, which is unrealistic without recognition by icao.
in writing. ‒ a stronger and more competitive eu aviation industry (its main competitor being the state-subsidised airlines of the gulf states) is of enormous importance and will ultimately have a positive impact on air passengers and the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that creating a level playing field and improving the competitiveness of the european aviation industry is very important. in addition, the observance of social standards is very important. improvements in the medical examination of pilots and safety procedures, as well as in the entry and exit of the cockpit crew, are also necessary requirements to reduce sources of danger in air transport.
in writing. ‒ a stronger and more competitive eu aviation industry (its main competitor being the state-subsidised airlines of the gulf states) is of enormous importance and will ultimately have a positive impact on air passengers and the european economy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask my colleague mr taurier: we are aware that trade facilitation brings more prosperity to the developing countries. but it is also important for aid for trade to focus on the countries where the refugee flows are coming from. does he think that this discussion is possible in kenya now and that we are giving all the support to the countries here to give people the opportunity to stay in their home again?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we see that this debate is urgently needed. we're in the middle of the digital age, the world is growing together, and we're still having discussions like we had at the start of the doha round. the world has changed dramatically, and i believe that the aid for trade area in particular - that we help small and medium-sized enterprises, that we help the self-employed in those areas where there is extreme poverty - should be the most urgent objective. the first thing to do is to fight corruption, because in many areas customs duties and administration are hindering it and preventing trade from being conducted. i think it's also important that we make sure that people have enough to eat again. how can we feed the 10 billion people who will be alive in 2050? so trade facilitation, aid for trade and agriculture, that is a package that is badly needed.
in writing. in just under four weeks, the 10th wto ministerial conference will take place in nairobi. the priority objective of this conference is to adopt a clear and detailed work programme to conclude the doha development agenda. this objective is unlikely to be achieved, as the lines of negotiation between the industrialized and developing countries are far apart on important issues. this concerns the agricultural sector, where developing countries are calling for better market access, the reduction of import quotas and duties and the reduction of subsidies by the industrialised countries, market access for non-agricultural products, which account for 90% of world trade, from minerals, raw materials for further processing such as petroleum to forestry and fisheries, as well as supply and access to services, such as non-discrimination against third countries in public procurement. the european union expects the outcome of the summit to be a comprehensive work programme, including liberalization measures in the field of non-agricultural products and services, export competition in the agricultural sector, and tariff reductions for agricultural and industrial products, with no exceptions for developing countries. the united states would be satisfied with a minimal version. the major agricultural exporting countries are calling for substantial improvements in market access and emerging countries such as india are insisting on maintaining derogations in opening up their agricultural markets.
the commission has already done so. i too warmly welcome this debate on a possible european strategy for animal welfare beyond 2015, because i - like many speakers before me - consider it very important that animal welfare does not end at border crossings and that a harmonised approach is needed, especially here in europe, for the welfare of animals, but also and above all for the welfare and protection of producers. my home country austria has really exemplary standards in european comparison in many areas of animal husbandry, for example in the implementation of caging of laying hens, but also in the field of animal transport. while our domestic livestock farmers are strictly controlled, there are still some member states in europe which have not implemented the eu requirements, particularly for laying hens. the transport of animals is also often at a greater competitive disadvantage. i too can join the previous speakers who have already pointed out that we are not contributing anything to animal welfare if we simply do not make animal production in europe possible any more. this is particularly true of third countries, if we do not take account in the field of trade policy of the standards at which animal products are imported into europe. very often, eu funds are also used to build, for example, stables outside the european union with less animal welfare. these products are then imported into europe at a lower cost. that's a lot of stupidity! i would like to appeal to all those who are campaigning for more animal welfare and more regulations: please do not stop at pure actionism, but inform consumers that this will lead to higher production costs. i therefore really hope that you will support the consistent implementation of food labelling, because i believe that we owe this to the consumers and above all to the producers in europe.
the commission has already done so. despite the crisis, despite the economic crisis, we have to talk about animal welfare. i started my presentation a few years ago when the 2012 to 2015 strategy was discussed. because even then, because of an economic crisis, they tried to dictate that we should not deal with the issues of animal protection, animal welfare. the european union must not allow itself to be swayed by the forces of terrorism, which are the most brutal and murderous. we must put our agenda on the table in this house and formulate these concerns which are important to us, also in the face of the crisis, also in the face of terror. today we are dealing with the implementation of an important point of the european treaty, namely article 13. he says animals are sentient beings. we must not ignore them, and i am absolutely convinced that you and your team will put forward a strategy for the future, because you are convinced - and i know this from your work with the health committee - that animal welfare and human welfare, animal health and human health, are inseparable. we will only have a europe for people if we have a europe where animal welfare and animal rights are also given high priority.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you mentioned it, next week in paris, the cop 21 begins. the european union has set itself the objective of being a leader in climate policy and climate action. the european union must meet the 2030 targets if we are to be credible in our role as a forerunner. you know, it's the 40 percent reduction in greenhouse gases, at least 27 percent share of renewable energy, and also at least a 27 percent improvement in energy efficiency. we all know that these changes, these points, these measures will lead to a complete transformation of the european electricity market. it is likely that up to 50% of renewable energy will be used for electricity generation, and that this will take account of the efforts towards the energy union, the current state of affairs that you are explaining to us. but that's not enough. what can be done? in addition to a functioning internal energy market, we need regional cooperation. you have already spoken today about 10% interconnectivity, cooperation between network operators, a reassessment of acer, the harmonisation of support schemes for the efficient development of renewable energy, the new role of end-users, which you also took into account in the summer package. this brings me to the last important point, namely the security of europe's energy supply. we have already spoken about this today: diversification of networks, diversification of suppliers, diversification of sources, but also a secure and stable interconnected network, because otherwise there is no european security of supply. they've already set some good resolutions in the summer package. i spoke about the new deal for consumers, energy labelling is coming, but the new energy market design and capacity markets and, very importantly, the ets reform and here please proceed with caution. the steel industry has been mentioned. it is important that the european location remains competitive. we want to be a leader in climate policy, but we also want to remain the most competitive location in the world. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that is a very good question, mr henkel. if europe does not commit itself to meeting the climate targets and makes binding commitments, then probably no one will. we see that neither china nor the united states are willing to make binding commitments, and we also see that very few emerging economies are willing to make binding commitments. this should lead us to link europe, as the largest donor of funds, for example in development cooperation, with the mandatory compliance and the mandatory specification of national action plans for climate protection. it is not possible that europe is the only region to commit itself and the others remain uncommitted.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr liese, please. we are always talking about sustainable energy supply, and among other things we are talking about the life cycle costs, for example of nuclear plants, but of course also of fossil plants. we've seen that the cost of importing fossil fuels, when you look at it across the entire cost spectrum -- from refugees to terrorists -- of course, there are external costs that, if we look to the future, could become a big problem for us. what do you think?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr werner langen, for his efforts throughout the whole process not only to deal with the subject from the outside, but also to engage in an intensive dialogue with the consumer protection organizations, the intermediaries and the different cultures in the member states in the field of insurance mediation, and thus to bring the directive closer to the practical level. it has three major advantages: on the one hand it leads to better consumer protection, on the other hand it leads to more transparency and on the third hand it takes account of the different cultures in the member states. i have always been in favour of better consumer protection, also from the point of view of administrative flexibility and fair competition and the relationship of trust between intermediaries and customers. secondly, increased transparency is important because we need to ensure that there are information obligations so that customers can make independent decisions and that the products offered are comparable. i am glad that there is no general, universal ban on commissions, because that would distort competition, contradict cultures, do nothing for the consumer, and probably even make it more difficult to compete and drive up prices. in that sense, a good product!
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the repeal of certain acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. these are technical amendments and are considered obsolete. i shall abstain on principle from voting on the schengen convention.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical report on the schengen acquis. the current situation confirms our critical attitude towards the schengen laws. the report merely reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a commission proposal for a decision repealing certain acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. this is a purely technical report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical report on the schengen acquis. the current situation confirms our critical attitude towards the schengen laws. the report merely reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are technical amendments, since these acts are now considered obsolete. i shall abstain on principle on the schengen agreement.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical report on the schengen acquis. the current situation confirms our critical attitude towards the schengen laws. the report merely reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to a commission proposal for a decision repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is a purely technical report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical report on the schengen acquis. the current situation confirms our critical attitude towards the schengen laws. the report merely reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are technical amendments, since these acts are now considered obsolete. i shall abstain on principle on the schengen agreement.
in writing. ‒ the report only reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to a commission proposal for a decision repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ the report only reflects the current legal situation. i shall abstain from voting on this report because it does not change the content.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the union's membership of the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the signature of this international instrument will enable the eu to become a full member of the enlarged ccsbt commission, of which it has been a non-cooperating member since 2006. i welcome a european role in the conservation of bluefin tuna and have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow for an exchange between the eu and the ccsbt (commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna). if adopted, the eu may also have a voice in this platform. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it allows for an exchange between the european union and the ccsbt (commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna). this allows the european union to participate fully in the work of the ccsbt.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow for an exchange between the eu and the ccsbt (commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna). if adopted, the eu may also have a voice in this platform. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to this report because the existing proposal for a directive on insurance mediation dates from 2002 and needs to be urgently updated. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the list of non-compliant insurance companies. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that the insurance sector is partly blamed for the financial crisis, as it is alleged that many customers were induced to take out insurance policies for purely speculative purposes. the aim is to meet the requirements of the european financial supervisors esma (stock market supervision authority) and eiopa (insurance and occupational pensions authority) while at the same time providing the end-user with more transparency, flexibility and information.
in writing. ‒ the current directive dates from 2002. since then, the insurance and financial sector has changed considerably through numerous other regulations and the creation of agencies, so that adjustments have to be made in insurance intermediation, which offers the customer more transparency, more flexibility and more information about defaults, coverage, etc. in the context of esma and eiopa, this adjustment makes sense, as the insurance industry was also partly responsible for the financial crisis and unsuspecting customers often took out insurance to speculate on a default. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the current directive dates from 2002 and since then a lot has changed in the insurance and financial sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public. furthermore, the customer will receive more information in the future. in the context of esma and eiopa, this adjustment makes sense, as the insurance industry was also partly responsible for the financial crisis and unsuspecting customers often took out insurance to speculate on a default.
in writing. ‒ the current directive dates from 2002. since then, the insurance and financial sector has changed considerably through numerous other regulations and the creation of agencies, so that adjustments have to be made in insurance intermediation, which offers the customer more transparency, more flexibility and more information about defaults, coverage, etc. in the context of esma and eiopa, this adjustment makes sense, as the insurance industry was also partly responsible for the financial crisis and unsuspecting customers often took out insurance to speculate on a default. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the creation of new funds and the adoption of european directives cannot be expected to solve the problem of inequality. it is also questionable whether the extension of the commission's powers by introducing this subject in the european semester can actually combat child poverty. i therefore abstained from voting on this report. as countries differ in the extent to which they are affected by child poverty, the national competence of each member state should be maintained, as this is the only way to ensure the efficient and prompt implementation of national action plans to combat child poverty.
in writing. ‒ the enf resolution on this issue is much more responsive to the individual needs of the member states and does not expect new funds and directives to be set up at european level. the report also promotes a widening of competences which is questionable whether it will really help children living in or at risk of poverty. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is an excess of competence and calls for further expansion of competence to the detriment of the nation states. while it is good to anchor child protection in europe 2020 objectives and to integrate it into emu, this should be left to member states.
in writing. ‒ the enf resolution on this issue is much more responsive to the individual needs of the member states and does not expect new funds and directives to be set up at european level. the report also promotes a widening of competences which is questionable whether it will really help children living in or at risk of poverty. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on cohesion policy and marginalised groups in society, because it allows any group to be arbitrarily declared a marginalised group when it is politically expedient.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to a further marginalisation of the majority society and the possibility of declaring all groups as politically opportunistic as marginalised. it is absolutely incomprehensible why women, who make up more than 50 per cent of the world's population, should be considered a marginal group. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it ultimately leads to further marginalisation of the majority society and to the unfair possibility of declaring all groups which appear politically opportune to be the marginalised.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to a further marginalisation of the majority society and the possibility of declaring all groups as politically opportunistic as marginalised. it is absolutely incomprehensible why women, who make up more than 50 per cent of the world's population, should be considered a marginal group. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on 'the eu's role within the united nations: how can the eu's foreign policy objectives be better achieved?' the report contains some positive aspects, but it must be rejected as a whole. the aspirations set out in it are incompatible with the political aims and ideals of our group and our party.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to the report. however, the report seems to be primarily concerned with further centralisation of the eu. it is also questionable whether the countries currently represented will be able to keep their seats if the eu were to get its own seat. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ although the report contains some positive points, i ultimately refused to approve it. it is not possible to give the european union more powers at international level and to reduce the influence of nation states (especially at the un level) even further.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to the report. however, the report seems to be primarily concerned with further centralisation of the eu. it is also questionable whether the countries currently represented will be able to keep their seats if the eu were to get its own seat. that is why i reject this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report is good, but it does not solve the problems, and it is therefore urgent that we continue our work. the damage done by tax avoidance is glaring. in oecd countries, 5% of current corporate tax revenues are lost each year. in the european union, around €1 000 billion of potential tax revenue is lost annually through tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. and while it is true that every country is a tax haven from the point of view of another country, that probably even the various measures and practices that have been in place are mostly legal, they are certainly unethical because they distort competition, they are unfair and unfair. we therefore demand that taxation be carried out where economic activity takes place. we need more transparency, so country-by-country reporting, information across countries. we need automatic transmission of tax rulings, harmonization of tax bases, the elimination of unanimity and the implementation of g20 decisions. we need to go deeper to build up the demand package.
the commission has already done so. the taxe special committee has not only exposed a whole lot of harmful tax practices in europe. companies such as facebook and apple were mentioned today, starbucks and fiat were condemned by the european commission, further proceedings are pending. no, that's not all. the committee initiated a study, subsequently commissioned by the european parliament, which revealed that up to eur 190 billion is lost annually by the member states of the european union through profit shifting, special tax schemes, inefficient tax collection and similar practices funds missing from national budgets in budget consolidation. given the large volume of tax evasion and the high level of tax inequality, please remember that the average corporate tax rate in the european union is 23.5% and these companies often paid less than 1%. the fight against aggressive tax planning has gained new importance in the european union. the mandate of this committee has been extended. that's good. the committee and the proposals must ensure greater tax fairness and transparency.
in writing. the taxe committee has produced a very good report and has proposed effective measures to make tax competition fairer so that workers and smes do not continue to bear the bulk of the tax burden in the eu. our demands include a common harmonised corporate tax base, public reporting, automatic exchange of information as we have just adopted here in the european parliament in the shareholder directive and not the light version of ecofin and a binding anchoring of the oecd recommendations on beps. we cannot continue to see profits leaving the european union without being taxed. the member states must act in unison and implement the requirements mentioned. this is the only way to put an end to state-organized tax dumping! profits must be taxed where they are earned. the committee on budgets has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the report. there are still many open questions, many documents and minutes of meetings which we were not allowed to see. i therefore call for the mandate of the taxe committee to be extended.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner and the presidency of the council very warmly for the excellent preparation of the negotiations. we have of course suffered under the multiannual programme with the 5% reduction in posts and a general saving of 4%, and it is of course a great challenge to implement this accordingly in the face of increased demands. we are now under 1% of european gross domestic product, we are now at 0.9%. so we have actually always reduced payments accordingly in recent years, despite the fact that we have had a financial crisis and in some cases still have, despite the fact that we have had a new refugee crisis, despite the fact that terrorism has been a very serious concern in our midnight negotiations and, of course, despite the fact that the problem of unemployment in europe is still not solved. on the other hand, there were some good things. the new group which has been formed here in the house and which can thus also get closer to european democracy and learn here how democracy can work between 28 member states will, after all, receive 43 new posts, 3.5 million. i hope that this will also improve cooperation considerably. i think that ultimately it is also about the fact that we see that the european economic and social committee, for example, has had the lowest increase of all the other institutions and the european court of justice the highest. i see that the emphasis here is perfectly right, and i thank the rapporteurs once again for the really excellent cooperation.
mr frunzulică has asked for a 'blue card'. but you will have heard that my colleague said first that she would no longer accept 'blue cards'. i'm following it because we're way past the schedule. that means no more "blue cards" from now on.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome this own-initiative report, also because it is being debated at a time when we are being haunted by the terrible attacks in paris. this report proposes concrete and deliberate measures to deal with one of the most serious threats to our freedom. nothing is sacred to da'esh terrorists. their death cult is aimed at the destruction of our civilization, the destruction of our democracy. their crimes must be punished without question. but it is not enough to react, we must take preventive action against these terrorists, we must strip them of their soil once and for all, because this phenomenon has its roots in us too. but what has been grown over the years cannot be removed by a single act of force, nor is there the miracle cure we all hope for. we need unity, we need determination, we need prudence, and above all we need patience. this report contains many good suggestions and presents a comprehensive strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens. it offers support structures such as the ran, it addresses the work in prisons, it provides support measures, it provides an effective and offensive online response, and it also addresses the suspension of financial support.
thank you, mrs spinelli. we'll look at that, how the wording was exactly, and then we'll come back to that.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam rapporteur, i can help you a little. because unless you are willing to even identify the root of the problem, because you seem to be blind to that eye, you will not be able to combat the causes. this is not about - i say this very clearly - condemning any religion in general. if you are familiar with the declaration of the paris terrorists - and i assume the rapporteur is familiar with it - then it is particularly naïve not to attribute the horrors of these acts to a religious background but to blame them on a lack of integration. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what's the latest on the paris attacks? i assume the timetable will be the same as after charlie hebdo. there will be sad faces, there will be glowing speeches, and nothing will change.
thanks for the heads-up. we'll see what really happened and who's behind it.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i shall proceed by taking one person from each group, especially those who have not yet spoken in this debate or even before. catch the eye
just a heads up. mrs. dati informed us that she had to leave. she used up her six minutes to start. she had to leave because she had to take care of her daughter. that's why she's not here anymore. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2015. ladies and gentlemen, before i move on to the next item on the agenda, let me say briefly that i hope that the hostage situation which is currently taking place in roubaix - according to the information we have from the media - will come to a good end, that there will be no more injuries and hopefully no more deaths, and that this situation will soon be brought to a safe end and that there will indeed be no new attack by is or others. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr edouard martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry (2014/2211 (ini)) (a8-0309/2015) and the commission statement on anti-dumping measures and their impact on the eu steel industry (2015/2978 (rsp)).
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you very much again for giving the commission the opportunity to address parliament on this extremely important topic of the european steel industry, which is also extremely important for us and for me personally. let me start with the own-initiative report by mr martin on developing a sustainable european industry in base metals. the commission welcomes the interest of the european parliament and the work that has already been done. the report offers a very interesting perspective for the current debate on how to support the sector, something that is really vital for our economy. the report also highlights fundamental issues that have been at the centre of the commission’s report. these include energy – including both energy supply and the design of the energy market – fair trade and climate policy, with a view to reducing emissions while taking competitiveness into account. it also gives some interesting proposals, and i can assure you we will think about them and try to come back to you with some solutions. these policy areas are also among the commission’s top priorities and are included in our main initiatives like the energy union, the follow-up to the trade and investment strategy and fostering a stronger and high-performing industrial base. the commission created a high-level group on energy-intensive industries to tackle challenges together with all the stakeholders and member states concerned. we look forward to continuing the dialogue with the european parliament on the topic of the metal industries as well as on many related policies, which are also extremely important. i also wanted to mention that the luxembourg presidency has paid great attention to the metal industries and called an extraordinary competitiveness council on 9 november to discuss the specific situation of the steel industry. let me now address the use of the trade defence instruments in the steel sector, which are the competence of commissioner malmström, but i am also very much involved in finding solutions in this area. to address the current crisis facing the european steel sector, the commission is willing to use the trade defence instruments to the full legal extent. we will open an investigation into every product on which we received a complaint with sufficient evidence of dumping and subsidisation causing injury to our industry. in this context, the commission is also willing to consider opening investigations based on the threat of injury. however, the legislative requirements for a case based on threat of injury are really demanding. there has only ever been one case in which measures were imposed on this basis, a case currently subject to court proceedings. the commission is also ready to begin the registration of imports in investigations with a view to the retroactive application of duties where this is warranted and the legal standards are met. the registration of imports could ensure that the situation of the european industry does not further deteriorate. as regards opening cases, there is nothing to be gained from this time-wise, as it still requires the existence of sufficient evidence, and this can only be furnished by the industry. trade defence action is triggered by applications from industry. this should remain the case, given that only industry is in a position to know the state of the market and the effects of imports. with regard to imposing measures more quickly, the most important step will be the agreement by the co-legislators on the commission’s modernisation proposals, which are already on the table. given that this is a legal process subject to scrutiny not only by the member states but also by the courts – and in some instances the wto – time is needed to ensure that any action taken is in line with the legislation and our international obligations. i am looking forward to your remarks.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to emphasize the importance of this report and thank you for the good cooperation, especially with the rapporteur. the base metal industry, particularly the steel industry, is in a very critical state in europe. a number of factors are contributing to the continued decline in the competitiveness of this sector, while costs continue to rise. we must be aware of the seriousness of the situation and create a competitive framework for this sector in europe. this includes, in particular, promoting the modernisation of european industry, facilitating access to new markets, bringing about the completion of the energy union and using and modernising trade policy instruments. one of the most important challenges in the near future will be the reform of the european emissions trading system, which we are currently discussing in parliament. we are faced with two difficult tasks: on the one hand, combating climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy, and on the other, maintaining competitiveness on the world market and the viability of our industry. however, i think we need to look at these problems in a broader context and also solve them. we do not think this report is the right instrument for this. we are at a critical juncture in the ets. first, the global climate summit in paris next week, which hopefully will finally lead to a breakthrough on an international level. secondly, the legislative process for the reform of the fourth stage of the ets is currently under way in parliament. i therefore see great problems with a report like this, which contains both detailed proposals for reform of the ets and calls for alternative instruments such as carbon caps, although these are clearly not desired by industry in many cases. instead of adding to the confusion of an already difficult situation, we should concentrate on the essential: the legislative implementation of a functioning ets reform in a separate report and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the base metals industry.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the president of the world steel association, the austrian wolfgang eder, who is also the ceo of the largest austrian steel group, explained in great detail last weekend why austria, the steel producing country, is faltering. voestalpine has an annual turnover of eur 11.2 billion, employs 47 500 people, 23 000 of them in austria, and has already invested eur 550 million in the construction of a direct reduction plant in texas this year. a further eur 25 billion will be invested in new sites in the usa and asia by 2020. this means that strategic growth has long since been taking place outside europe. and here is the voest representative of many steel companies in europe. the chairman of the board gives clear reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. a study by the renowned economic policy institute was just published in september, which shows that up to 3.5 million jobs are at risk from the deindustrialization of europe. high energy and labour costs, an increasing shortage of skilled workers, a weak economic situation in europe and highly subsidised cheap chinese steel are threatening the production site in austria. i call on the commission to take all the measures necessary to ensure that the values which they have now mentioned, all the instruments ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that the raw materials industry imports raw materials and that we import energy in europe, about 400 to 500 billion energy, about 200 billion raw materials. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we simply need the best conditions in this value chain, in this supply chain, and that includes import so that we can buy cheaply, and that includes export so that we can strengthen the purchasing power in europe. this will ultimately create employment, and employment will create purchasing power. that is why we are now making the wto round a priority, that we are focusing on trade facilitation, aid for trade, and therefore taking advantage of the opportunities for developing countries, because the truth is that we are not living in an eco-paradise in europe. i think we have to make sure that the products and services we provide every day are competitive. here, we'll help you. we support you and we believe that we must now become much more active in this area in the future if we are to achieve our objective of 30% of gdp in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. but it is also the time to speak clearly here today - whether you remember charlie hebdo, that cowardly attack on freedom of expression, whether it was the cowardly attack on the jewish museum in brussels or now the massacre in paris which affects us all. of course, it is clear that you are sitting on the rubble of a multicultural society. they are also sitting on the rubble of a failed security policy, where eyes were closed and heads were buried in the sand when it became clear that in certain islamic-islamist circles the situation was becoming more and more radical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have to close the borders. they must ensure that extremism and islamism are banished from europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we can all agree that we are currently facing the greatest test since the european union was founded. da'esh is an existential threat to our democracy and our civilization. da'esh is a culture of death that wants to destroy everything: our history, the trust of people in each other and, in an exaggerated way, innocent people. we must fight back, we must defeat this enemy, and i say enemy, once and for all. to do this, we need determination, consistency, thoughtfulness and a long breath. there are no quick fixes, no magic potion, and this is no time for partisan polemics. first of all, we have to be honest: da'esh is a global, transnational phenomenon. we must also acknowledge that these terrorists have european roots. the foreign fighters over 5,000 foreign fighters are in these areas. we need a european response. there is only one european answer to this question and no national one. that means foreign policy. and there is great progress here on syria. but we should also support those who are already fighting daesh. in kobane, in şengal, it was kurds and yazidis who fought and defeated these terrorists. we need to have a dialogue with the constructive forces - that is the majority of sunni muslims. we need this dialogue and we must take it seriously. we need de-radicalisation work in europe - i am very pleased that we are voting on the dati report today - and we need an efficient security policy. the council has also made some positive proposals in this area. i would like to see the council take the same action on the refugee question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i take your word that we are now taking urgent decisions together, without any further blockages, to fulfil our political responsibility for the safety of people in europe now and immediately: passenger data collection also for intra-european flights, measures against illegal arms trafficking, long overdue systematic checks on persons at the eu's external borders, registration of third-country nationals, massive security at the external borders. i welcome the initiative of commission president juncker to strengthen the border and coast guards, the permanent seamless exchange of suspect files in eurodac, strengthen europol, strengthen financial contacts, control financial measures, prevent fraud, data protection. i also take the council's advice to end the blockades of refusal by individual member states. we, the ... (the president withdrew the floor)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! the paris attacks call for a sober and objective response. because fear is there, it's felt by every one of us. but what we cannot do is to react in a way that will cause people to be more frightened and more terrified, and to attack the democratic freedoms, the fundamental freedoms that we have won on this continent over years and centuries. the attacks - i am convinced of this - prove that it would be the wrong way to go now, to push for more unwarranted surveillance, more data storage. to include the entire population in this is not justified. because even after charlie hebdo, the enlargement of the haystack has not succeeded in finding the assassins who have now carried out these attacks in paris. france has pnrs, they're already doing that, and there was no way to stop it. that means that we must remain at the democratic level of fundamental rights, and that we must have more cooperation between the member states, between police investigations and intelligence services under the umbrella of europol and eurojust.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i feel like i'm in a parallel world when i read in the media today that the french social democrat prime minister manuel valls is talking about not taking in any more refugees, closing the borders, and i hear from the other side here from socialists, leftists and greens that we need open borders, a pseudo-welcome culture, because they don't want to recognize that we have a mass migration into europe an invasion , and they don't want to recognize that about 70% of those coming from syria or iraq are not real refugees. i can therefore recommend that you take the opinion of the socialist prime minister of france very, very seriously. i would like to convey to you what he said in the southern german, namely that control of the eu's external borders is essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing.– we have to be very careful not to lose our balance: on the one hand there are the freedoms we cherish and which are, among others, at the core of our western values, and on the other hand making sure that these terribly tragic events do not occur again. what we urgently need is much more cooperation between the security apparatus of and among the european countries. they jealously guard their information – secrets, if you will – instead of sharing intelligence with the neighbour. we also must not fall into the trap of those who would like to equate the refugees with terrorists. that is an absolute shameless political game. those unfortunate people have been fleeing the very same atrocious attacks that were committed in paris – they had seen and experienced these kinds of acts in aleppo, in homs, in many syrian towns on a daily basis. as far as we know, not a single one of the terrorists was a refugee; on the contrary, they were citizens of, or born in, belgium or france. and they bought tickets to travel to turkey and then on to syria. there is absolutely no reason to mix up refugees with terrorists.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this report. it concerns the draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 establishing an eu trust fund for the crisis in syria and africa. although there are some points in favour, i am not clear how the systemic structural problems of the region and their impact on europe can be solved by additional payments.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i support the idea of providing aid on the ground. however, the increase in financial resources without the necessary accompanying measures will not have the desired effect. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for additional financial resources to deal with the refugee crisis. i abstained because a further increase in financial resources cannot deal with the refugee crisis as long as the funds are being used incorrectly and in a way that is not targeted. the report does have some good aspects, however, as it notes that member states are in arrears with their payments.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i support the idea of providing aid on the ground. however, the increase in financial resources without the necessary accompanying measures will not have the desired effect. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the proposal to use the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the report also calls for greater flexibility for the eu budget. i do not agree with this report because i do not think that the use of this instrument is justified.
in writing. ‒ a further increase in the use of these funds is not worthwhile without accompanying measures. the proposal to make the budget even more flexible would lead to a bottomless pit. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration gives its consent to a mobilisation of the flexibility instrument of eur 1 530 million. i rejected this because this approach has failed to produce the desired effect in the past.
in writing. ‒ a further increase in the use of these funds is not worthwhile without accompanying measures. the proposal to make the budget even more flexible would lead to a bottomless pit. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a proposal for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances in the 2016 budget. there is no objection in principle to the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, which was set up to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters. now, however, 50 million euros from this fund are to be transferred to the eu's general budget for 2016 and set aside for disasters. this raises the problem that it will facilitate a possible re-allocation of these funds in the future, which will no longer guarantee that the commitment is guaranteed. for these reasons i cannot agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's proposal would facilitate the reallocation of funds for purposes other than those provided for in the fund. i reject such a misuse of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances in the 2016 budget calls for the solidarity fund to be used to provide eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances. i voted against this report because i do not think that the use of the solidarity fund is appropriate here.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's proposal would facilitate the reallocation of funds for purposes other than those provided for in the fund. i reject such a misuse of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on the approved joint text for the general budget of the european union. the budget is to be adopted as proposed by the council. the commission has also proposed that the budget should be increased in areas with added value (research and development, smes, etc.) and that the general budget should be cut. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the fact that a budget lower than the 2015 budget is to be spent is welcome, but the commitment appropriations are too high, especially for the flexibility instrument. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report on the 2016 budgetary procedure endorses the joint declarations of the parliament, the council and the commission and sets out the total amount of commitment and payment appropriations for the 2016 budget. i abstained because, in addition to positive aspects such as the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises and aspects of efficiency, the budget also contains some unnecessary expenditure for agencies.
in writing. ‒ the fact that a budget lower than the 2015 budget is to be spent is welcome, but the commitment appropriations are too high, especially for the flexibility instrument. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the rejection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure because i consider the use of diethylhexylphthalate to be extremely dangerous and i am opposed to it in principle.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. it called for a more transparent level playing field in insurance mediation, supply and information, and for better account to be taken of changes in the business behaviour of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. the aim is to ensure that consumers enjoy the same level of protection despite the differences between distribution channels. in order to ensure that the same level of protection applies and that consumers benefit from comparable standards, in particular in the area of disclosure of information, a level playing field between distributors is essential. the report ensures this by means of a number of technical measures and would make it possible to buy insurance cover where it offers the best conditions, rather than being forced to do so in the country where one is present.
in writing. ‒ the report makes some sensible proposals, but ultimately it aims at further centralisation of the eu. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report on tax rulings and other measures of similar effect or nature calls on the commission to reassess and strengthen the existing mechanisms and resources of competition policy. the main objective is to eliminate disparities between tax systems. i have abstained on this report because, in addition to the very technical but quite sensible proposals, the member states' powers are to be greatly restricted.
in writing. ‒ the report makes some sensible proposals, but ultimately it aims at further centralisation of the eu. that is why i abstain from voting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the paris terror attacks are the sad culmination of islamist terrorism so far, and you didn't have to be an intelligence expert to predict them. so now is the time for determination and honesty. but there is no sign of either determination or honesty in this report. it was fearful to call things by their name, namely islamism. in europe, human lives are not threatened by fundamentalist christians or jews, but by extremist muslims. and to say that outright is not politically correct. the rapporteur has apparently not dared to oppose them either. if the political leadership of the union does not show any determination in defining the opponent, but only speaks in complete naivety about better reintegration of returnees, then unfortunately we have already capitulated to god.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. it is regrettable that the report clearly fails to identify the real causes and the basic symptoms of radicalisation, but this is almost entirely ignored. the preventive measures against terrorism contained in the report are also not substantially covered in the motion for a resolution, which is why i cannot agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ effective preventive measures against terrorism are only marginal in this report. the basic causes and symptoms of radicalisation are negated. the report misses the real problem. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report ranges from well-intentioned to naive proposals to those that further endanger our security. an example of this might be the serious proposal for the reintegration of islamist returnees. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ effective preventive measures against terrorism are only marginal in this report. the basic causes and symptoms of radicalisation are negated. the report misses the real problem. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. while it remains of great importance to prevent various problems at work, particularly in relation to the health and safety of workers, this should remain a matter for decision in the individual member states. the employment relationship and actual working conditions vary widely between member states. this would undoubtedly lead to enormous overlaps of powers if any attempt were made to regulate at eu level with fixed rules.
in writing. ‒ in many areas, the report goes beyond the eu's competences in this area. while it is important to address these problems, regulation at eu level with fixed rules is the wrong way to go, as labour standards have also evolved differently in the different member states and are not always of equal importance. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on an eu strategic framework for health and safety at work identifies labour inspectorates as being particularly crucial in the effective enforcement of legislation on health and safety at work. i voted against this report because it should be left to the member states to decide.
in writing. ‒ in many areas, the report goes beyond the eu's competences in this area. while it is important to address these problems, regulation at eu level with fixed rules is the wrong way to go, as labour standards have also evolved in different member states and are not always of equal importance. that is why i reject this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is amazing that now, when so many people come to us, there is so much more talk about tackling the causes of flight, that suddenly there is a boom. i remember that for many years - as many others have done - i have spoken of the need to increase development cooperation, of the need to tackle the real causes of displacement: unfair trade policies, unfair fisheries policies, agricultural policies of the european union. but back then, i always felt like i was talking to rubber walls. now, suddenly, we suspect that the main purpose is to stop the refugees, to shut us off and say, "please, no more". there are promises - yes, also at the valetta summit - of how much money is to be paid now. but why should we believe that this is finally coming? the promises to also contribute to the climate funds now, just before paris? how can we believe that this will really happen if, for example, the 0.7 target for development cooperation has never been reached in the past 45 years? we need action, not just new promises!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the tragic events in paris are unfortunately all too often mistakenly linked to the asylum crisis. i want to make it very clear that one has nothing to do with the other. but i also find it difficult to talk about emergency measures when what we really need is a long-term plan. that is precisely the point i am missing from this summit. some member states still seem to think that the european problem has nothing to do with them. but because it is a european problem, it affects us all and it can only be solved together. it seems to me that everyone is hoping that winter will bring some respite to the countries. but it cannot be that the increased risk of refugees is being used to make us sit back. i would also like to express my full support for the efforts and aspirations of the high representative and stress that the summit commitments made by the member states must finally be called for and implemented - both in terms of the funds and the staff committed. i think it's time we stopped talking about announcement politics and actually got into the implementation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the message from valletta and antalya is one: we can only move forward if we all take our responsibilities together, both at european and global level. we must not forget that international decisions are in the national interest. but we have a credibility problem here. i therefore appeal to the council: start every post-summit report to this house and to the public with a report on the concrete actions that have set in motion the decisions of the last summit. our credibility problem is that since charlie hebdo, we haven't done the data sharing across the eu, but only in five states, that we haven't fully stocked the africa trust fund, even though we decided that member states haven't stocked the syria trust fund, even though we decided that we haven't staffed the border guards sufficiently, even though we decided that we agreed to support turkey, but we haven't implemented it. i must ask the member states to reflect on their decisions and to act, because only this creates credibility, only this creates confidence, only this creates the necessary determination to take up the challenges of the present and the future together. we will be known more by our deeds than by our decisions. the decisions were good, the signals were sent, but action is needed, and we need to catch up!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the error rate estimated by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014 for the european development fund is 3,8%. in the previous financial year we were at 3.4%. as usual, we are well above the 2% threshold. the sources of error also remain the same: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what i am interested in is that at 31 december 2014 the outstanding commitments amount to eur 9 673 million, partly because we are still spending money from the 8th edf, which was set aside 20 years ago. this means that we are talking about a depletion rate of 19.7% - less than one fifth of the total budget. do we know where this money is, what it is to be used for, why it is more or less frozen? we cannot afford to leave almost 10 billion euros lying around. that is why i, as rapporteur for the discharge, expect some very insightful answers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in its 2014 annual report, the european court of auditors, as it does every year, criticises the european union's spending policy. of the total expenditure of eur 142.5 billion, 4.4% or almost eur 6.3 billion was misused, some 1 200 cases were referred to olaf for examination, and 22 specific cases of suspected fraud are under examination. but fraud is not the rule. most of the irregularities and misallocations are in research projects, in allocations to scientists and in agriculture, for example when forest areas are declared as pasture land in order to get higher funding. the largest misallocations in terms of volume are made in the case of the structural funds. in this context, the court is quite right to criticise the lack of coherence of the eu budget with the general objectives, for example in the context of europe 2020, the lack of concrete objectives against which the real value of the resources used can be calculated for example in the structural funds the lack of flexibility to respond to crises we see this in the migration crisis the procurement practices in public procurement and the lack of due diligence and low level of commitment of funds, especially in some member states, in particular in regional policy and agriculture.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. cambodia is one of the most censored countries in the world. the crimes of the pol pot regime, which killed millions of people, still cast their shadows over the country today. it's a long, difficult road back to normalcy, punctuated by setbacks dependent on the whims of the hun-sen regime. last year there were restrictions on ngos, civil society, trade unions, and now the democratic opposition is also affected. this is also linked to the success of the opposition leader sam rainsy. that makes the rulers nervous, and it led to his removal from office, to his indictment on dubious grounds. he is in exile today, and he is here among us today. i'm very pleased that he can listen to our debate. but it would be in the interest of all of us if he could be in phnom penh today and debate in the cambodian parliament. we all want this and we call on the cambodian government and the commission to support us in this. perhaps he could lead this country out of the darkness of history once and for all.
in writing. ‒ while there are some suggestions in this report, such as the oft-repeated call for wto reform, the report does acknowledge that agreements such as ttip and tisa are viable pathways to fair, open and also beneficial trade areas for developing countries. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ while the report does contain some useful suggestions, such as the long-standing call for wto reform, it maintains the view that agreements such as ttip and tisa are viable pathways. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ i refused to approve the report on the state of play of the doha development agenda, as it marginalises the role of the member states in favour of the union. the commission has also been very active in the negotiations with the united states and japan.
in writing. ‒ while the report does contain some useful suggestions, such as the long-standing call for wto reform, it maintains the view that agreements such as ttip and tisa are viable pathways. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing against free trade agreements in principle, but between countries with very different economic strengths, they are critical because they can often damage the small structured local economic landscape in the less developed country and increase dependence on the more developed trading partner. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i see no problems in ecuador joining the trade agreement already in place with peru. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing against free trade agreements in principle. however, between countries with very different economic strengths, they are to be viewed critically, as they very often destroy the small structured economy in the weaker country and cause more unemployment and dependence on the 'west'.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. animal welfare in europe needs to be improved and the definition of 'good animal welfare' needs to be clarified in order to have effective minimum welfare standards. on the other hand, while taking account of the careful protection of animals, which also involves necessary intervention in nature, such as hunting, excessive and unnecessary over-regulation must not be allowed. the report, in its final form, takes this idea into account, and i can agree.
in writing. ‒ a ban on painful practices such as stuffing ducks and geese for liver paste, cutting tails and beakers, dehorning cattle or keeping calves in cages is welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it contains many positive points for a real step forward in the field of animal welfare, particularly as regards farm animals, for whose better treatment i have long campaigned.
in writing. ‒ a ban on painful practices such as stuffing ducks and geese for liver paste, cutting tails and beakers, dehorning cattle or keeping calves in cages is welcome.
in writing. ‒ this proposal contains some good proposals to ensure that displaced young people are given further education, training and education. it is also interesting that currently only 2% of all humanitarian aid goes to education. the proposal calls for an increase to 4%, but even this seems too low in view of the challenges. the resolution is on the right track, but not ambitious enough, because the education factor for displaced persons cannot be set high enough. only through education can we ensure that these individuals will return and want to end the spiral of violence one day. i would like to see more ambition on this subject, but i am happy to agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ a good proposal in itself to ensure that displaced young people continue to be educated and thus further trained. however, this resolution is not ambitious enough, because the educational factor for displaced persons cannot be measured high enough. only through education can we ensure that these people will return or that they will be able to leave the spiral of violence. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the present resolution calls on eu countries to integrate refugee children in emergency situations into national education systems and considers that education reduces the risk of radicalisation of young people. in principle, there is nothing to prevent these demands. however, it seems to me to be completely pointless to formulate these aspects apart from a coherent strategy for dealing with the current migration crisis, which should in principle be initiated by the nation states. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ a good proposal in itself to ensure that displaced young people continue to be educated and thus further trained. however, this resolution is not ambitious enough, because the educational factor for displaced persons cannot be measured high enough. only through education can we ensure that these people will return or that they will be able to leave the spiral of violence. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the tightening of the efficiency of cohesion policy is welcome in principle, but the motion for a resolution fails to address the key problems of the policy, such as the misuse of funds. that's why i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the strengthening of the effectiveness of cohesion policy, but does not address the key problems of cohesion policy, such as the misuse of funds, etc. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy is one of the largest eu policies and is generously endowed with financial resources. the fight against misuse, the increase in the efficiency of the use of funds is therefore essential. the report does not go far enough, however, and i particularly miss the clear wording of the mistakes made in the past. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the strengthening of the effectiveness of cohesion policy, but does not address the key problems of cohesion policy, such as the misuse of funds, etc. that is why i abstain from voting.
i have to say, madam president, what is happening here is a great political smear comedy. in this political theatre of burlesque, one person stands out particularly negatively, namely mr weber of the epp, who is not here at the moment and who wants to blame the whole problem on the greeks. he can only be reminded that the main person responsible for the whole disaster was german chancellor merkel, with the help - unfortunately i have to say this as an austrian - of the austrian chancellor faymann, who initiated this mass movement in the first place. after this disaster, it's unfair to blame others. that's one thing. secondly, to have a shoddy trade with the turks, in addition to the pre-accession aid to the european union, which is already one billion, which has amounted to five billion, and now to put another three billion a year in the coffers here in istanbul, is certainly something that is not open to discussion. this turkey can certainly never become a member of the european community!
in writing. the new circular economy package is absolutely welcome. we consume so much that if every person were an average european, it would take 2.6 earths to generate enough raw materials for a global european lifestyle. the more efficient use of resources along the entire value chain is therefore necessary: we need to do less with less, recycle more, and make products more durable and recyclable. in particular, there is an urgent need for action on non-renewable raw materials, such as petroleum or rare earths, packaging materials or products with a planned obsolescence that are difficult to recycle or recover. to do this without sacrificing anything seems like the square of the circle. but the approach of making the same products with fewer resources, making them easier and saving all the resources not necessarily necessary in production, is a viable solution. there's less waste and there's a reduction in resources right from the start. and if we could increase resource productivity by 30%, we would increase gdp by 1%, and create 2 million new jobs. although there is no specific resource efficiency target in this package, it is an important step in the right direction.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would also like to thank the co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive cooperation and for a very good result. this report is very timely, since the commission will soon present a proposal to amend the frontex regulation. parliament has delivered a balanced and workable proposal that will, hopefully, duly be considered. as pointed out by the european ombudsman, the legal vacuum that surrounds the deployment of third—country officers during joint return operations, and the lack of accountability in cases of human rights violations involving third-country officers, can be dangerous. the mechanism proposed in the report could be a valid instrument to prevent the side effects of the current frontex structure. once again, i would like to underline that fundamental rights are not optional. it is during difficult times, rather than fair weather days, that we cannot take them for granted and we have to fight for them. the influx of refugees cannot be a reason for the eu institutions to accept and tolerate violations of fundamental rights against vulnerable people. we cannot turn a blind eye – now more than ever.
a writer. the commission is not we need binding rules throughout europe to ensure that men and women are represented equally on the supervisory board. because on its own, little to nothing happens. only in those countries where there are binding rules do we see really good progress and a higher proportion of women on supervisory boards. so patience is no longer a category. the european parliament has done its job. what do we want? increase the proportion of women in listed companies to 40% by 2020. and what do we want to do that with? by establishing an objective procedure. objective procedures, which means that the best men and women should be selected. that's good for the economy, and it's also fair. that's all that matters. that is actually a very gentle offer to the member states. and then there is this passage that allows countries like germany to take into account their national efforts - all that they have tried in recent years and are trying now to achieve a higher proportion of women in enterprises. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this dossier is ready, it's on the table. i would therefore like to thank the luxembourg presidency for showing this energy, even now - i do not want to say a last but certainly an effort - to try to get the member states who are now covered on board. the next council meeting on employment will be held very soon, on 7 december, and we can only call on the member states to: take a good look at the whole file. it's damn gentle and deserves to be passed. because in the end, it's good for men, it's good for women, it's good for the economy. and perhaps one last word: especially in the context of the refugee tragedy and the fact that gender issues are being emphasized again and again as european values, it is all the more important to take gender issues, but also corporate governance, very seriously at european level.
the author, question on the 'blue card' procedure. have you read the report? the report mentions methods, namely objective methods to achieve an objective. and it doesn't say that it's a quota.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am very pleased. - i'm not sure. dax companies will have to have a 30% female quota from next year and the rate of implementation is not so bad. one in four supervisory board positions in large german companies is currently held by a woman - exactly 26.7%. the figure for europe as a whole is 18.6%. germany has adopted a mandatory quota for women by law. an eu quota for women on supervisory boards will be discussed at the employment council next week. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the participation of women in the supervisory boards of large listed companies. in my view, this draft is problematic because the setting of a legally binding quota for women is not within the competence of the eu and at least for some member states it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. gender diversity has a positive impact on the business success of large companies. in germany in particular, companies with a high proportion of women on the boards have a good performance on the stock exchange. the consumer goods group henkel is an example of this. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ the extension of the present mandate will allow the work already done by the special committee on tax rulings to be continued. the aim of the special committee is to reduce tax fraud and tax evasion within the eu as far as possible. that is why i am in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow the special committee to deepen its work. there is a well-founded hope that this decision would lead to a reduction in tax evasion within the eu. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is also linked to and a good complement to the work of the taxe special committee. in particular, it will address outstanding issues, while also providing greater transparency in corporate accountability. in addition, in future, important institutions will be in constant contact and will work closely together.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow the special committee to deepen its work. there is a well-founded hope that this decision would lead to a reduction in tax evasion within the eu. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal. this is an automatic appointment of members. this does not require a separate vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow the special committee to deepen its work. there is a well-founded hope that this decision would lead to a reduction in tax evasion within the eu. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will allow the special committee to deepen its work. there is a well-founded hope that this decision would lead to a reduction in tax evasion within the eu. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. this report concerns the agreement between the eu and the principality of liechtenstein on the future arrangements for the taxation of interest income. the implementation of the convention will lead to greater transparency and all member states will be able to tackle tax evasion more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement is intended to ensure that liechtenstein applies more stringent rules. the tax authorities in the member states should also be able to identify correctly the tax liabilities involved.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i disagree with the report. it will lead to a massive overload of frontex. many of the aspects contained in the report also lead to bureaucratization which hinders frontex in fulfilling its proper competences and tasks and in pursuing its essential tasks.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to further bureaucratization. the report will place additional burdens on frontex, which will make it even more difficult for it to fulfil its actual tasks in the future. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because this special report seeks to address unjustified demands from migrants, which in my opinion should not be supported in any way. we need to secure our borders, and that's the issue at the forefront, not the transgender craze. the report will only result in border guards being confronted with a flood of unfounded complaints.
in writing. ‒ the report leads to further bureaucratization. the report will place additional burdens on frontex, which will make it even more difficult for it to fulfil its actual tasks in the future. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the spö delegation voted against amendment 1 in the vote on the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility, as we believe that diesel can serve as an important bridge fuel until there is a real alternative to fossil fuels. the tax advantage granted to diesel over petrol is therefore fully justified, in particular because diesel emits less co2. at the same time, however, we are of course very concerned about the promotion of alternative fuels. in the long term, our goal must be to completely replace fossil fuels with alternative fuels.
in writing. ‒ the spö delegation voted against amendment 1 in the vote on the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility, as we believe that diesel can serve as an important bridge fuel until there is a real alternative to fossil fuels. the tax advantage granted to diesel over petrol is therefore fully justified, in particular because diesel emits less co2. at the same time, however, we are of course very concerned about the promotion of alternative fuels. in the long term, our goal must be to completely replace fossil fuels with alternative fuels.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this report. while the report contains positive aspects in its efforts to introduce a new transport concept for european cities, including the promotion of the expansion of public transport and the use of alternative vehicle propulsion, it also contains proposals that are unrealistic or would disproportionately discriminate against motorists.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the report contains some points which are to be welcomed. a new (sustainable) transport concept for major european cities is urgently needed. the rapporteur has put forward some good proposals (promotion of local public transport, promotion of alternative propulsion systems for vehicles, etc.); however, the report also contains some points which are discriminatory or simply unrealistic. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. the rapporteur calls for the number of conventional vehicles (petrol or diesel engines) in public transport to be halved by 2030 and phased out of cities by 2050. the cities are severely curtailed in their sovereignty, and no alternatives are mentioned. however, the report also contains very good approaches, such as the promotion of public transport for staff or the promotion of alternative propulsion systems for vehicles.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the report contains some points which are to be welcomed. a new (sustainable) transport concept for major european cities is urgently needed. the rapporteur has put forward some good proposals (promotion of local public transport, promotion of alternative propulsion systems for vehicles, etc.); however, the report also contains some points which are discriminatory or simply unrealistic. that is why i abstain from voting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to discuss personal feelings and inclinations here, but everyone can think what he wants. we have reduced the number of amendments, the number of separate votes and the number of separate votes. it's true, 45 minutes is a really long extra time. we shall endeavour to reduce further the number of separate votes and the number of individual votes. i thank you, mr president, for meeting us.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr sylikiotis for his report. in your view, would it have been necessary to give greater attention to the eastern mediterranean in the eriksson report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and to highlight this area in particular, particularly with a view to increasing diversification in the area of europe's energy security?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the paris agreement on climate change aims to bring global warming well below two degrees and to achieve greenhouse gasneutrality by 2050. the europeans have made a binding commitment to this, but many other countries do not. the report on the energy union which we are discussing today is therefore of great importance because it is the mix of measures it sets out that will enable many member states to achieve or come close to achieving these reduction targets. the main focus is on measures to reduce co2 emissions, increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and improve energy efficiency, primarily of buildings and transport, which is why the tran committee was involved. the aim is to change the direction of energy policy: away from fossil fuels and nuclear energy, away from centralised market models and dirty generation technologies, towards a sustainable economy that conserves resources, towards more competition and a greater involvement of consumers. how are we going to do that? by increasing energy supply - certainly, this has been mentioned today - by increasing diversification, energy diplomacy and cooperation in the field of electricity supply. the report by mr eriksson today shows that this is possible through the development of energy infrastructure, in particular the expansion of the grid to increase interconnectivity by 10% by 2020, 15% by 2030, the further development of the networks and decentralised generation and new storage facilities, as well as more funds for research and development, innovation in the energy sector. the strategic focus is on lowering energy prices, creating decentralised sources of supply, increasing energy security - reducing the risk of blackouts - and creating better funding for new technologies and green jobs. but it is important to maintain a certain degree of restraint, particularly in the light of cop 21 and the commitments of the eu member states. our main concern must be to maintain the attractiveness and competitiveness of the site, in line with a healthy and sustainable climate policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's trade mark protection package is a key instrument in the fight against counterfeiting. how can that be done? the balanced rules for transport goods will hopefully ensure that we can effectively combat trademark piracy. the system of european trade mark law is already working reasonably well. the innovations will now also further improve it and hopefully also lead to more growth and innovation, as intended. what's the news? a significant reduction in fees, better coordination between the eu trade mark office and national offices and simplified registration of an eu trade mark. our rapporteur, mrs wikström, has mentioned what is particularly important to me about this package: we have been able to ensure that generic medicines continue to be available in developing countries. health is so important that any regulation on trademark protection that we make here at the european level should also absolutely guarantee that generics are actually delivered to developing countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark is protected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am afraid, colleagues, that we are going to have to use genetically modified maize to feed animals that we ourselves will eventually eat. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the consequences of this are not yet even to be estimated, and they will be quite massive. in austria, for example, and as a liberal, i can tell you that we are opposed to the modification of the genetics of food in general, but also to any intervention in the genetics of food and animals in particular. and i want to keep it that way. we want to be able to determine that ourselves as austrians. because in austria, for example, it is not possible to grow genetically modified food. this is also a very important reason for us why we are so strongly opposed to ttip. i can only think of one quote from goethe's apprentice magician: "the spirits i have summoned i shall never rid of".
the commission has already done so. 179 kg of food per person is thrown away in the eu on average per year. approximately 300 kilograms of food along the entire value chain. no one can come to me and say: we need genetically modified maize or soybeans to feed europeans. the only real reason for this is to bring products to market which can survive, for example, the use of pesticides. but on the other hand, if we're already fighting to get glyphosate out of our fields because we know it's sustainably harmful to people and to animals, why do we need a maize that's resistant to that glyphosate? that means we don't need it twice: we don't need it for food security, and we don't need it to protect us from these pesticides, herbicides and insecticides. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you remember november 2013, when after the failure of the association agreement between ukraine and the european union, a bloody revolution took place on the maidan, where people joined the fight against corruption and for more democracy. and today - two years later - everything is much worse than it was then, and the old advisors of the old system are now the new advisors of the new system: a mr martynenko, who is shoveling millions with letterbox companies in vienna, in my home country of austria, who transfers gas, titanium and uranium from kazakhstan to russia via ukraine and where the austrian authorities are already involved, a mr kononenko, also with connections in austria, against whom the authorities are investigating, a mr loschkin, the head of the kiev presidential office, where austrian authorities are also investigating. i won't let you do this again! i want the authorities in austria, the austrian parliament, but also the european institutions to take action here. i will inform the eu commissioner for neighbourhood affairs. i want the people on maidan not to have died in vain and that this corrupt regime be brought to life here.
i have to say, madam president, the report on the energy union which is being discussed today includes a proposal to extend the powers of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, known as acer. acer issued a non-binding recommendation in september this year on the separation of the german-austrian electricity price zone, notwithstanding the fact that such a separation would cause annual additional costs of eur 300 million and would therefore significantly increase the price of energy. this is not the only argument against this acer recommendation. the current price zone, which has existed since 2002, ensures that almost 100% security of supply is guaranteed at competitive prices. the commission notes that the electricity price band is a good example of the potential of electricity from renewable sources to be used in the union market. so, a separation of the german-austrian electricity price zone is not useful. on the contrary, the benefits should be emphasised and acer should not act as a european super-regulator but rather as a platform for cooperation and conciliation between national regulators.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the eurogroup! the five presidents' report of june this year envisages the creation of an economic, financial, fiscal and political union with the aim of creating economic policy coordination, convergence and solidarity in the euro area. the commission has recently proposed the creation of national competitiveness committees to give concrete form to stage 1. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. these committees will be composed of independent experts who will monitor national competitiveness and contribute to wage negotiations. the committee also intends to incorporate its recommendations into the european semester and to use them in the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the commission is to coordinate the whole thing. all this may sound very good in theory, but in practice it is a poorly feasible solution for creating growth and jobs in europe. the national competitiveness committees have no significant influence on member states' policies, nor on the implementation of structural reforms or wage negotiations. and a new pillar of european social rights to be developed will lead to one, namely the restriction of entrepreneurial freedom with the result that less investment is made, less jobs are created and less growth happens in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the day after the conclusion of the negotiations on monetary union, helmut kohl said: 'the european union is now irreversible.' the decision to adopt a common currency is, in fact, the first step towards the creation of a political union. a common currency and a political union go together. but we are not yet a political union. the crucial point is therefore that we finally present an action plan, a plan for the operational implementation of all the proposals, a sanctions plan and a timetable for the creation of political union. the second point is that we all agree today that the euro is a community currency, not just for the euro zone. this means that this parliament gives democratic legitimacy to the political decisions necessary for the single currency. the president of the commission has said that parliament and the commission must be strengthened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. and that is why we need an eu finance minister of our own, why we need a common voice in the international monetary fund and the world bank. and we need a european union voice in international committees such as basel, and we need a european budget. and we also need sanctions mechanisms for all those who do not comply with what we decide and set. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because of fundamental differences in the way we view this issue.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office is an administrative apparatus which has not yet produced a successful initiative. it is causing a high cost without any benefit being seen so far. the swiss participation will not change that. on the contrary, it seems to be a decision against the swiss population, because switzerland, although it has to contribute money, does not have voting rights in the administrative council of the support office. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office is an administrative apparatus which has not yet produced a successful initiative. it is causing a high cost without any benefit being seen so far. the swiss participation will not change that. on the contrary, it seems to be a decision against the swiss population, because switzerland, although it has to contribute money, does not have voting rights in the administrative council of the support office. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i would have voted against this recommendation because i believe that we are more secure than ever. i also do not think that this country is really ready for visa-free travel. we must take the fears of our people seriously. visa-free travel at the wrong time can be a huge blow to a europe without internal frontiers.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. as i said in my previous explanation of vote, i would have voted against this recommendation because i believe that we are more secure than ever. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa-free regime is applied.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. as in my previous explanations of vote, i would have voted against this recommendation. i do not think that visa-free travel to certain countries is an option.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. instead of repeating the mistakes made with the visa-free regime for the western balkans, europe should finally take a serious look at securing its borders. that is why i would have opposed this agreement.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i would have opposed this recommendation as well. instead of repeating the mistakes made with the visa-free regime for the western balkan countries, europe should finally take a serious look at the security of its borders.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i am of the opinion that visa-free travel could further exacerbate the refugee crisis. that is why i would have spoken out against this agreement in parliament.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i am of the opinion that visa-free travel could further exacerbate the refugee crisis. that is why i would have spoken out against this agreement in parliament.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. this recommendation would not have received my support in the european parliament either. i am not in favour of visa-free travel. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i also believe that visa-free travel could increase the flow of refugees to europe.
in writing. ‒ i reject the visa waiver at this time. this raises security concerns which would not be acceptable to europe in this situation.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i would have opposed this recommendation in the european parliament. i am not in favour of visa-free travel. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i also believe that visa-free travel will increase the flow of refugees to europe. we must take the fears and concerns of the people seriously.
in writing. ‒ in times of mass migration, visa exemption for many more countries seems like a bad joke. instead of passing laws that could curb mass migration, the eu is focusing on visa facilitation. the european people are being treated very badly. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. it is not clear from the report and the underlying documents which data should now be transmitted in detail to improve cooperation with eurojust. that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. ‒ the report makes a number of sensible proposals. however, it seems to be the rapporteur's aim to bring about further centralisation. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report makes a number of sensible proposals. however, it seems to be the rapporteur's aim to bring about further centralisation. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ gnp and vat-based revenues are based on a mechanism that is too complex, cost-intensive and non-transparent. simplification, as proposed here, is welcome, as it minimises costs and also provides member states with a clear and transparent indication of where the money is going. however, the report also provides for a third of the vat revenue to be transferred to the commission so that it can use this revenue to cover arrears. the commission also proposes to reduce the margin of manoeuvre available to member states at the time of payments. i reject that and i shall vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ gnp and vat-based revenues are based on a mechanism that is too complex, cost-intensive and non-transparent. simplification, as proposed here, is welcome, as it minimises costs and also makes it clearer to the member states which funds are going where. the report does, however, provide for a third of the vat revenue to be transferred to the commission to enable it to make up the backlog and for the margin of manoeuvre of the member states to be reduced at the time of payments. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ gnp and vat-based revenues are based on a mechanism that is too complex, cost-intensive and non-transparent. simplification such as that proposed here is welcome, as it minimises costs and also makes it clearer to the member states which funds are going where. the report does, however, provide for a third of the vat revenue to be transferred to the commission to enable it to make up the backlog and for the margin of manoeuvre of the member states to be reduced at the time of payments. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to georgios kyrtsos' position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as manager of two newspaper publishing houses. there is therefore no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member. that is why i am voting to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to georgios kyrtsos' position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as manager of two newspaper publishing houses. there is therefore no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos. there was a complaint from the trade inspectorate of east attica about non-payment of wages. in this context, a possible prosecution for an alleged crime may occur.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to georgios kyrtsos' position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as manager of two newspaper publishing houses. there is therefore no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to stelios kouloglou's position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as a television reporter. there is no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member, as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to stelios kouloglou's position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as a television reporter. there is no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou. mr kouloglou has been charged with a possible indictment for an alleged crime. he was charged with defamation and slander of prison staff in patras.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is clearly not related to stelios kouloglou's position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous activity as a television reporter. there is no reason to believe that the underlying criminal proceedings are motivated by the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adjustment fund payments to finland. the it industry has been undergoing major changes, with many jobs being lost. these jobs must be preserved and i think the measures proposed are helpful.
in writing. ‒ a large number of workers are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the assurances given by the finnish authorities are broad and reliable. the proposal seems to be a tried and tested means of protecting workers. i therefore agree with this report.
the european union has a budgetary instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in the world trade pattern. the fund is working precisely where society needs it most, and that is why i would have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a large number of workers are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the assurances given by the finnish authorities are broad and reliable. the proposal seems to be a tried and tested means of protecting workers. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this report. i think many of the points raised are useful, but a complete eu trade mark is not very useful.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to in the report in principle, but the improvements are not clear. moreover, the necessity of the project is questionable. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to in the report in principle, but the improvements are not clear. moreover, the necessity of the project is questionable. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this report. i think many of the points raised are useful, but a complete eu trade mark is not very useful.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to in the report in principle, but the improvements are not clear. moreover, the necessity of the project is questionable. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. i would have abstained on this report. the report is about making trade mark registration cheaper, faster and more reliable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the seizure of counterfeit goods in transit through the eu, which is being made possible by new rules. the report is very good in principle, but i am missing a few points to support it.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to in the report in principle, but the improvements are not clear. moreover, the necessity of the project is questionable. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the measures proposed are appropriate and appropriate. that is why i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report shows promise for ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum use of north-east atlantic fisheries resources, thereby creating sustainable environmental and social benefits. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report shows promise for ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum use of north-east atlantic fisheries resources, thereby creating sustainable environmental and social benefits. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's proposal goes beyond the commission's demands and provides for very wide concessions to bosnia and herzegovina. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal goes beyond the commission's demands and makes far too many concessions to bosnia and herzegovina. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal goes beyond the commission's demands and makes far too many concessions to bosnia and herzegovina. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for cooperation on a purely strategic basis, including the fight against financial crime. the report is therefore approved.
in writing. ‒ this is purely strategic cooperation. this cooperation can help to combat financial crime. it could also be useful in approaches to combat terrorism and other serious crime. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. i would have voted for this report in the european parliament. the agreement is a police cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina and between europol and the united arab emirates. the rules will be extended in future to include a review clause, whereby members would have a say. i would have voted for this cooperation because a review clause is quite useful and checks whether certain rules and standards are being complied with.
in writing. ‒ this is purely strategic cooperation. this cooperation can help to combat financial crime. it could also be useful in approaches to combat terrorism and other serious crime. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome. the amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 and the rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome. unfortunately, the report did not only express a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, but in some places it even referred to the expansion of nuclear energy. the spö eu delegation has a medium- and long-term objective of nuclear decommissioning in europe, so we could not support the report and voted against it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome. the amendments for binding energy and climate targets by 2030 and a rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome. unfortunately, the report does not contain a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, and in some places it even refers to the further development of nuclear energy. the spö-eu delegation's objective is to achieve the nuclear phase-out of europe in both the medium and long term, so we could not support the report and voted against it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome. the amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 and the rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome. unfortunately, the report did not only express a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, but in some places it even referred to the expansion of nuclear energy. the spö-eu delegation's objective, both in the medium and long term, is to phase out nuclear power in europe, and we could not therefore support the report and voted against it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ many of the proposals are very welcome and offer great opportunities for energy producers and consumers, but there are some points with which i cannot agree.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the approval of plans for a european energy union can only be achieved if there is a clear rejection of nuclear energy. this is not the case in this report. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the energy union. the report calls for a series of measures to help reduce europe's high energy costs, reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels and further decarbonise the economy. i particularly welcome the fact that my group's amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 (40% co2 reduction, 30% renewable energy and 40% energy efficiency) have been adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. i would have voted against this report in the european parliament. the draft resolution on the energy union concerns the voluntary joint negotiation of energy purchase contracts in third countries. it also sets ambitious and evidence-based 2030 targets which i believe are too far-reaching.
in writing. ‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects, which i welcome. the amendments for binding energy and climate targets by 2030 and a rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome. unfortunately, the spö members of the house do not find in the report a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, and in some places it even refers to the further development of nuclear energy. the spö-eu delegation's objective is to achieve the nuclear phase-out of europe in both the medium and long term, so we could not support the report and voted against it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the approval of plans for a european energy union can only be achieved if there is a clear rejection of nuclear energy. this is not the case in this report. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the importance that interconnectivity can bring to european energy markets. austria benefits in particular from increased interconnectivity with germany, thanks to its price zone. however, the 10% target is applicable to all countries on a per-pot basis, without any basis for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the importance of interconnectivity of energy markets. however, the proposal would entail further centralisation, which i clearly reject. that is why i do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the importance of interconnectivity of energy markets. however, the proposal would entail further centralisation, which i clearly reject. that is why i do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ as the microfinance facility facilitates access to micro-credit for micro-enterprises to set up and access to funding, i agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is generally welcome, given that the microfinance facility facilitates access to micro-credit to start or promote micro-enterprises, and that almost 85% of all new jobs are created in micro-enterprises, which are often unable to obtain credit in the traditional banking sector, as they are a prohibitively costly target group for this sector. unfortunately, the report also calls for an unjustified preference for women over men. it also calls for a 'parity of women entrepreneurs'. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report is generally welcome, given that the microfinance facility facilitates access to micro-credit to start or promote micro-enterprises, and that almost 85% of all new jobs are created in micro-enterprises, which are often unable to obtain credit in the traditional banking sector, as they are a prohibitively costly target group for this sector. unfortunately, the report also calls for an unjustified preference for women over men. it also calls for a 'parity of women entrepreneurs'. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. - i'll abstain from this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ sustainable management of fish stocks is essential. the report contains some good suggestions. however, it is questionable whether such legislation should come from the eu level or whether nation states should know best how to manage their fish stocks and what practices are most promising in their respective waters. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. in general, the main objectives of the common fisheries policy are well-established and well-thought-out. however, despite the successes achieved so far, there are still some problems. there is criticism of the new quota here there is a gap between politics and science , it will not end overfishing in european waters. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ sustainable management of fish stocks is essential. the report contains some good suggestions. however, it is questionable whether such legislation should come from the eu level or whether nation states should know best how to manage their fish stocks and what practices are most promising in their respective waters. that is why i abstain from voting.
madam president, i welcome the presented proposal of a real federal border and coast guard agency presented by the commission. this is, in my opinion, a good step forward towards a much needed common european asylum/immigration system. however, it is clear that we will have to have a close look into the details and discuss them, and make sure that fundamental rights are respected everywhere and always. we have been listening to the council complaining about the current situation concerning border management. now that we have the possibility to act, we cannot tolerate any lack of action or interinstitutional cooperation from the member states’ side any more. the deadlock in the council has to be overcome. we also know that some member states fear that the mandate of the new border guard force will go as far as allowing the deployment of agents without the consent of the host country. i really believe that this requirement is essential if we want a workable and efficient european system in place. i am convinced at this time that member states should transfer some responsibility to the eu level in order to increase the security of our population.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept this. twice as many illegal immigrants in one year as in the previous five years! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. schengen is at the heart of what european citizens experience as a united europe. and of course we have chaos! the commission has responded, and i therefore support, together with many colleagues in the european people's party, the immediate introduction of the joint border and coast guard by frontex. it is the key to finally organising uncontrolled immigration, and of course this coastguard must have full powers to intervene where a member state fails! and we have that today, so it's a logical consequence. i have no problem with an austrian policeman providing assistance at the greek external border, and i have no problem with an italian policeman doing the same at the hungarian border. i believe that we must increase the pressure on non-cooperative third countries. i am glad that this package is also making progress in the area of repatriation. we can't afford another summer like this in europe!
in writing. paris has achieved a great result: the 2°c limit has been successfully decided with a declaration of intent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's competitiveness is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's competitiveness is not undermined. technological developments in this area have made enormous progress, so that the implementation of national action plans would provide a boost to energy-efficient industry and research. europe's binding ratification of the 2050 climate targets is only a first step if the rest of the world, which has only voluntarily committed to the agreement, is not also committed to it. this is a major challenge for europe's competitiveness, because only those companies that are also making the most technological advances in climate protection and energy efficiency will be able to withstand international competition. the dialogue between politics and business must now be strengthened so that all stakeholders can benefit from the new agreement. this is the only way to ensure that europe can sustain its leadership in climate policy. financial markets also need regulatory reliability to respond to new challenges. the fsb will establish a climate change disclosure task force to create a new market for the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. cop21 has opened a new chapter in the history of climate action: with the agreement of all 189 countries to the internationally binding paris agreement, we are on the right track from ambition by a few to action by all. the global challenge of climate change shows that the international community can achieve world-changing things. implementation is now all the more important: in addition to the €100 billion funding, the five-year review of the indcs is therefore essential to achieve the 1.5°c target. the great ambitions before cop 21 require just as great energy and commitment after cop 21. we are also sending a clear signal to business, investors and politicians that there is no way around climate action. investments in technology, emission reduction and carbon neutrality have finally been given the international legal framework. i would like to thank the european parliament delegation to cop-21, commissioner arias cañete and the french presidency for the success of the negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need a european tax policy. but this does not mean that we want to standardize the amount of taxation, but that we want to standardize what is taxed and where. this must be done throughout europe. the unanimity blocks a european tax policy. unanimity leads to delays, to false solutions, to halfheartedness, it overrides the majority willing to act, and it shuts down the european parliament. the financial transaction tax is an example of how fragmented a european solution can be if unanimity is maintained. what we urgently need - and i ask the commission to take up the ball that this report is putting on the table again: we need country-specific reporting obligations for multinational companies, because they are another means of greater transparency and fairness. we need to harmonize the tax bases for business taxation in europe. we need to harmonize the tax systems that are relevant to the internal market. that's what we're about. we must implement the report as quickly as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a study commissioned by the european parliament shows that the member states of the european union lose €190 billion every year through profit shifting, special tax schemes, inefficient tax collection and similar practices. the fight against aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations is a top priority in view of this volume, and this report makes a valuable contribution to transparency, coordination and harmonisation in the eu corporate tax area. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs. the importance of the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion is also demonstrated by the renewal of the mandate of the taxe committee, the report on the automatic exchange of advance rulings and transfer pricing arrangements and the report of the taxe special committee, and the oecd beps initiative. this report sets out a number of measures aimed at ensuring fair tax competition between groups and smes and ensuring that taxation is effectively carried out at the place where the services are provided. this will be achieved through a common corporate tax base, country-specific reporting and the introduction of a 'fair tax payer' ... (the president cut the speaker off)
well, that brings us to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have reports from three factions. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 december 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr enrique guerrero salom, on behalf of the committee on development, on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid (2015/2051 (ini)) (a8-0332/2015).
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this systematic report and i share his hope that this summit will be a success. the current refugee crisis shows the urgency of reform and where it leads when resources are scarce and promises are not kept. in september, at the refugee summit, mrs merkel said: 'we have not seen that international programmes are not sufficiently funded, that people in refugee camps are starving. self-awareness is good, but it's about changing our behavior. i think it's not that far away at the moment. we're seeing it in the syrian area. the european level is making efforts. we have also done our duty as parliamentarians. but the member states are still lazy, they do not keep their promises. that is why we need a mandatory mechanism. we have to move away from voluntariness.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. for reasons of time, i shall give the floor to only one person from each group from which someone has spoken, and that is to say only those who have not spoken in the last hour. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 december 2015.
- i'm not going to die. we're running out of time. we're already planning to be finished shortly after 11:00. the plan is 11:00. i have therefore decided that we will use the 'catch-the-eye' procedure to include only those members from one group who have not yet spoken, or if you are the only one from your group, you will be included. but if there are others from your group here, i shall not take you to task, but only those who have not yet spoken. i ask for your understanding that we simply cannot take on board all those who have spoken in the catch-the-eye procedure. i cannot tell you now who will actually be speaking in the next catch-the-eye procedure because i do not yet have all the names. thank you for your understanding. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on labour mobility (2015/2931 ((rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we in the european people's party support you in the european commission in your desire to increase and massively promote the mobility of workers and jobseekers within the eu. only around 7,5 million of europe's workers were employed in another member state in 2014. this corresponds to a share of only 3.1%. the mobility potential of the eu's working population is far from exhausted. this is not at all satisfactory, given the high unemployment rates in some regions of europe. here too, the new eures network of public and private labour market administrations will be able to make a strong contribution to providing hundreds of thousands of vacant jobs. we want to see that in future the posting of every worker to another country is not only made easier, but guaranteed under fair conditions. we agree with you, commissioner, that we are giving people the security of receiving their fair wages and the social benefits they deserve throughout the eu. i therefore think it is not sensible to act now in a hurry and tighten up the 2014 posting of workers directive before it has even been fully implemented. let's wait for the evaluation. the principle must be: review before revision, and so serious labour market policies for the people of europe must be implemented.
i would like to thank you, commissioner thyssen. i would also like to thank you for your concern about the health of mrs collins. i want to let you all know that mrs. collins is in stable condition, that she's getting the medical attention she needs. i would also like to wish her a speedy and good recovery on behalf of us all. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the adopted decision on the european accessibility act (2015/2928 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i would like to thank the interpreters and the staff of the house for having stayed with us for so long. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. terrorism has now entered europe. the currency is collapsing, and in the last few months we have had a migration of almost biblical proportions. the reaction of the european nomenclature, the heads of state and government, is to show complete lack of planning. it's like a chicken coop, you know, where you're just playing around, not really developing a plan. at first, it was called "all immigrants are welcome". then it was called, "but not everyone can enter". then they said, "let's close the borders". then the borders were opened again. then they said: schengen will be suspended. then schengen is back on. then they said dublin would be suspended. then dublin is back on. at least now there is an agreement to protect the external borders. i'm looking at this cautiously positive. but if this europe fails to protect our identity, to protect the diversity of our cultures, then this europe will also fail, and then you, who are causing all this chaos, will be made the gravediggers of european identity.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to the current presidency, so i am voting for the extension of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to the current presidency, so i am voting for the extension of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing to object to the current presidency, so i am voting for the extension of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the current presidency. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to evaluate the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular on data protection, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation. a new assessment of the situation is to lead to the opening of renegotiation of the agreement at international level. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited, inter alia, to evaluate the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular on data protection, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation. a new assessment of the situation is to lead to the opening of renegotiation of the agreement at international level. i am in favour of this and therefore support the report.
in writing. i would have agreed to cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina, as the current fight against islamist terrorism urgently requires the balkans to be the focus of attention as a route of transfer and source of illegal weapons. this can only be achieved through cooperation with regional partners.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited, inter alia, to evaluate the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular on data protection, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation. a new assessment of the situation is to lead to the opening of renegotiation of the agreement at international level. i am in favour of this and therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ ireland's aeronautics industry is particularly affected by the effects of globalisation and the crisis. it is therefore necessary to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the situation does not correspond to the intended use of the egf but is applied under the derogation procedure. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. i would have abstained on this motion. it is true that ireland's application may meet all the formal criteria; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the situation does not correspond to the intended use of the egf but is applied under the derogation procedure. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the resolution. the rapporteur considers that the draft implementing regulation exceeds the commission's powers and has therefore asked the commission to withdraw the draft. i shall vote for this report on these grounds.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur notes that some land plants and mammal species that meet the criteria and for which a robust risk assessment is available have not been included in the list. if this is the case, the commission will have to submit a new report. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur notes that some land plants and mammal species that meet the criteria and for which a robust risk assessment is available have not been included in the list. if this is the case, the commission will have to submit a new report. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe requires the placing on the market of food and feed containing a genetically modified maize. the commission's implementing measure, as the rapporteur believes, goes far beyond the commission's powers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers in the area of the internal market. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of maize nk603×t25:the ban on the cultivation of gm crops in austria ensures the necessary protection for the citizens who are in the majority against gmos. the objection is an important signal for a gmo-free european union. in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity and the right of national self-determination, i am clearly in favour of the freedom of genetically modified organisms on austrian soil. the level of protection in austria must remain high in order to safeguard the interests of consumers in the area of food safety.
in writing. ‒ although 19 member states have banned the cultivation of genetically modified maize on their territory, the commission is pressing ahead with another attempt at authorisation. this is not the will of the european member states and the commission is exceeding its implementing powers.
in writing. i would have given my full support to the motion to reject the authorization of this genetically modified maize. any vote to the contrary would be incompatible with my democratic mandate.
in writing. ‒ although 19 member states have banned the cultivation of genetically modified maize on their territory, the commission is pressing ahead with another attempt at authorisation. this is not the will of the european member states and the commission is exceeding its implementing powers.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i also contributed to as a shadow reporter, is very balanced. although some proposals for the extension of powers should be treated with caution, it is in principle necessary to make certain approximations in order to avoid tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ a very balanced report in and of itself. however, there are some proposals to extend the powers: european standards for the withdrawal of licences from companies involved in tax avoidance, european control and audit of tax advisers, ccctb, etc. i do not think such centralisation is welcome. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. although the title of this report promises greater proximity to the citizen and transparency, in detail i do not think the individual measures are appropriate to achieve these objectives. in the end, it is a report that aims to increase the influence of brussels at the expense of the nation states and puts it in beautiful words. that is why i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ a very balanced report in and of itself. however, there are some proposals to extend the powers: european standards for the withdrawal of licences from companies involved in tax avoidance, european control and audit of tax advisers, ccctb, etc. i do not think such centralisation is welcome. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a very realistic picture of eu relations with the people's republic of china. the approaches proposed are quite reasonable, but it shifts a great deal of responsibility to the us and hardly sets up any eu initiatives of its own. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some sensible approaches. however, it does appear that the rapporteur believes that the eu would be powerless in foreign policy without the involvement of the usa. the report also contains anti-russian views. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. i would have abstained because the report does not deal enough with current human rights problems.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some sensible approaches. however, it does appear that the rapporteur believes that the eu would be powerless in foreign policy without the involvement of the usa. the report also contains anti-russian views. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the concept of 'protection needs' is being extended very widely and the rights of intervention required in the integration of private funds in humanitarian aid and in the administrative sector go too far.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it defines climate refugees, lgbti people and especially people with hiv as 'people in need of protection' and because it seeks to intervene in the humanitarian aid and administrative sectors of various member states by involving private funds.
in writing. i would have abstained because i consider that the responsibility for humanitarian aid lies first and foremost with the nation states. if we are going to go so far as to establish brussels' competence in this area, then i think the measures are not going far enough or in the wrong direction.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it defines climate refugees, lgbti people and especially people with hiv as 'people in need of protection' and because it seeks to intervene in the humanitarian aid and administrative sectors of various member states by involving private funds.
in writing. ‒ the report is now much more balanced and realistic, thanks to many changes. the measures proposed to create a level playing field for the european metal industry are quite innovative and would also help to advance the objectives proposed at cop 21 worldwide.
in writing. ‒ a well-balanced report with some innovative measures to level the playing field for the european metal industry. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have today spoken out against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, for which i was the shadow rapporteur of my group. although i believe that european industry - especially the steel industry - is in a serious crisis and in urgent need of reform and support at european level, the report contains many dubious claims. the most problematic is the requirement for a co2 cap on products imported into europe from abroad. apart from being a highly complex legal and economic issue, the compatibility of which with the current wto law is highly questionable, it does not represent the best solution to the problems of european industry. instead of demanding a new, hardly feasible system, we should focus on the forthcoming ets reform and create a business and industry-friendly system here that can reduce the cost to businesses without jeopardising our climate goals.
in writing. i would have agreed to the report because it does contain some points which could actually help the base metal industry in all member states to improve the conditions of competition while at the same time reducing the environmental burden.
in writing. ‒ a well-balanced report with some innovative measures to level the playing field for the european metal industry. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote against this resolution. the democratically elected government of hungary exercises its constitutional rights and is not to be restricted in its sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ hungary has demonstrated that this is possible with its effective border control. hungary should be seen as a pioneer, but the motions for resolutions take an anti-hungarian stance. that is why i reject it.
in writing. ‒ hungary has demonstrated that this is possible with its effective border control. hungary should be seen as a pioneer, but the motions for resolutions take an anti-hungarian stance. that is why i reject it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this debate is always a very important event for the european parliament every year. especially in times when human rights are increasingly being mocked, it is important to have this debate. it is very positive to note that european foreign policy is taking a different course and that human rights are a strong focus in the work of the delegations. we can always see this in the international treaties and instruments. i would like to thank in particular the excellent work of the special representative, mr stavros lambrinidis. it would be really important that he should also have a say in this house on urgent human rights issues. he's an important ally for us. i would also like to congratulate mr cristian dan preda on his excellent work on this report. the panzeri report has become a very systematic, clear human rights report, which covers all the important areas. it is also particularly important to me that the issue of refugees and migration is clearly addressed here, because refugees and migrants are often double victims of human rights violations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the events of the summer of 2015 will occupy us for a long time. they caught us off guard, but not unexpectedly. it was the biggest refugee movement since world war ii, and nothing will ever be the same again. we have seen the hectic pace, we have seen barbed wire fences, we have seen camps - both formal and informal - we have seen violence. much could have been avoided if the ideas that this house has long held had been followed. we talked in april about a holistic approach, we talked about a differentiated approach, that we should distinguish between migration, flight and expulsion and asylum. it's all done in one place, but we need different tools. and that's the problem: the purpose of the asylum procedure is lost in providing protection to asylum seekers, in making an individual assessment, in guaranteeing fair and prompt procedures. interment is only an exceptional procedure and may only be necessary in certain circumstances. we have an admissions policy, we've talked about standards, we've talked about this not being a prison situation, as we've decided. we have talked about the special needs of children and young people. we certainly did not talk about systematic use of force. i wonder why this package has not yet been implemented in all member states. it is possible that many member states have doubts about the usefulness of the dublin procedure. we should seriously consider how we can replace dublin with something more sensible, more practical. if we were to talk about humanitarian corridors of entry, legal legal avenues, then we would avoid a lot. and we should also ask ourselves: how do we deal with turkey? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in turkey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am concerned that some member states are deliberately criminalising the seeking of asylum. crossing the border illegally, especially when there is no legal possibility of seeking asylum, is certainly no worse offence than parking in a wrong place. so it's not a crime, and yet we arrest asylum seekers. eu law, like article 5 of the european convention on human rights, stipulates that deprivation of liberty is only permissible as a last resort in asylum proceedings. the detention of a person for the purpose of identification or fingerprinting should not therefore be the automatic immediate measure. we are dealing here mainly with traumatized and vulnerable people and even children, and we should never forget that. apart from the fact that this type of treatment is costly and presents an ethical dilemma for the officers who have to arrest and detain people who have not committed a crime. it is time to change this practice and to ensure that refugees are treated humanely.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the forced coexistence of different confessions and different peoples does not work de facto on the ground, while the dayton transitional solution is now part of the federation and the republika srpska, and forced measures on the ground - especially those through the institution of the high representative - do not improve the country and the tense situation on the ground. on the contrary, the scars of war have not yet healed. in addition to the internal borders between the republika srpska and the federation, there are still the imaginary borders between the individual denominations. nevertheless, this dayton agreement is and has been essential for the peaceful coexistence of all parties. in the light of this, i would urge that no experimentation be undertaken with these agreements. i think it would be to the detriment of all concerned.
mr president, as some have said before, dayton was good to end the war but it was not good to make a sustainable peace. so now, 20 years after the signature of the dayton peace agreement, i think it is time to evaluate the agreement and also all the 12 annexes, and the level of implementation, and to make a plan on how to proceed with each and every one of the 12 annexes. let me specify one of them: annex no 7. i am glad it made it in our common resolution in article 3, which ensures the safe and sustainable return of internally-displaced persons. we welcome the process achieved, but we all know that there are still around 84 000 internally-displaced persons in bosnia. in a country with 3.8 million inhabitants, this still is a lot. i am also glad to mention another part. in paragraph 3 we mention different degrees of vulnerability when it comes to displaced persons and other victims of the war. 20 years after dayton it is high time to make an extra effort and to address the tens of thousands of war-related victims of sexual violence in bosnia. we all know that one structural element in the war in bosnia, as in all other wars worldwide, was rape: widespread sexual violence aimed at hitting the respective enemy hard by raping the enemy’s women. these women have not yet received proper attention or appropriate social and economic support and health assistance. i think that 20 years after dayton it is high time to do this – to make reconciliation work also for the victims of war rape who have for too long been silenced.
madam president, i remember vividly the days 20 years ago when i was reporting from dayton on how often and how close the negotiations were to breakdown – like at 04.00 on the morning of november 22, when the americans were celebrating the conclusion of the talks, but then the phone rang. it was the bosnians calling to tell them that the deal was off again. now, 20 years later, where do we stand? peace has been established, but only with nato troops on the ground. the bureaucracy is like an octopus, except that those creatures are not corrupt, and the three ethnic groups still mistrust each other. but the people of bosnia are demanding more. they want decent jobs, they want a european perspective. 20 years ago, when all seemed set to fail, the americans had the plane turbines revving to make clear that they were ready to leave no matter what. perhaps we should do the same now: show the authorities that the european plane will take off without them unless they get their act together and do so quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not ibrahim halawa is a tragic case because it shows what can happen to an individual when human rights and the rule of law are not taken seriously. for the egyptian authorities, it would be an easy task - in this case at least - to prove the opposite. ibrahim halawa is not just an isolated case, it is a case of systematic disregard for human rights and the rule of law in egypt, and it is particularly painful that this is happening in egypt, because egypt is an important partner for the eu, because we value egypt's efforts in the fight against terrorism and because we are interested in a stable egypt. the european union has a long history of supporting the democratic process in the region. otherwise, it's like a pressure cooker: it'll explode at some point.
in writing. - i abstained from my vote. the committee on transport and tourism has also been asked to draw up a report on the future of the european union's transport policy.
in writing. ‒ the report is reasonable in principle and a proper investigation is reasonable. however, i believe that such an inquiry should be left to the national states. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report is reasonable in principle and a proper investigation is reasonable. however, i believe that such an inquiry should be left to the national states. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ this protocol is purely technical in nature, as croatia was not yet part of the negotiations at the time of the opening of the negotiations. i therefore agree with the minutes.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical vote, as croatia was not part of the eu when the ppa negotiations began. there are no objections to this, so i agree with the report.
in writing. as croatia was not yet in the eu when the original agreement was signed, this vote is a purely technical formality, which is why i would have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical vote, as croatia was not part of the eu when the ppa negotiations began. there are no objections to this, so i agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the agreement with vietnam will bring many new opportunities for european industry, particularly in the field of goods and freight transport. vietnam is one of the most dynamic and fastest growing economies in asia and offers many advantages for europe's economy and politics.
in writing. ‒ the agreement has been negotiated for a very long time and european business has shown a particularly strong interest in it. the last focused on the implementation of copyright, corruption and human rights. the compromise reached is not really satisfactory. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. while the agreement contains some good points, which would benefit the european economy in particular and should safeguard human rights, unfortunately some compromises have been made which are not really satisfactory. i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the agreement has been negotiated for a very long time and european business has shown a particularly strong interest in it. the last focused on the implementation of copyright, corruption and human rights. the compromise reached is not really satisfactory. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the resolution clearly shows where vietnam has made progress and where there is still room to catch up. the critical paragraph on visa and consular fees, which leaves every diplomatic sense out of the question, has been dropped. that is why i am voting in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ a balanced resolution that praises progress but also points out the problems that still need to be addressed. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. the report strikes a good balance, pointing out the positive aspects and developments, but not being afraid to point out and address the problems which would have led me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a balanced resolution that praises progress but also points out the problems that still need to be addressed. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this report. the measures proposed go beyond what countries can cope with under the current framework. some of the proposals are aimed at creating a transfer union, which i reject.
in writing. ‒ this report leads to more coordination, more control by the institutions, more powers. i am opposed to further centralisation and therefore to this report.
in writing. as the report calls for further centralisation of powers and wants to give more power to the european institutions, i would have voted against this report in order not to further restrict the powers of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report leads to more coordination, more control by the institutions, more powers. i am opposed to further centralisation and therefore to this report.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned about human rights and democracy, but the proposals made in this opinion go too far and present the eu as a moralizing power.
in writing. ‒ the report is ideologically oriented. he is an advocate of quotas, lgbti rights, strengthening of eu human rights institutions and their influence on the legislation of the member states. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. the report is purely ideological and calls for strengthening lgbti rights and strengthening the eu's human rights institutions, in addition to quotas. this would only mean a further circumcision of national institutions. i would have voted against this report and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report is ideologically oriented. he is an advocate of quotas, lgbti rights, strengthening of eu human rights institutions and their influence on the legislation of the member states. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. it is not living up to the dayton peace agreement and is proposing measures which create unnecessary tensions.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the enf group (b8-1350/2015). it covers all the essential and important points for the implementation of the measures necessary to ensure that the dayton peace agreement is respected and to protect political, civil and human rights. i therefore reject the other motions for resolutions, in particular the joint motion for a resolution which is aimed at forcing a multiethnic state.
in writing. i would have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the enf group (b8-1350/2015) as it contains all the essential points and measures to ensure that the dayton peace agreement is respected. this would protect political and civil rights and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the enf group (b8-1350/2015). it covers all the essential and important points for the implementation of the measures necessary to ensure that the dayton peace agreement is respected and to protect political, civil and human rights. i therefore reject the other motions for resolutions, in particular the joint motion for a resolution which is aimed at forcing a multiethnic state.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. it contains unjustified accusations against the european arms industry and undermines the competitiveness of this sector in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some sensible approaches. however, an anti-russian attitude is evident, as well as support for eu sanctions against russia. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. the report, in addition to its very reasonable approaches, has a strong anti-russian stance and supports sanctions against russia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the current crisis.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some sensible approaches. however, an anti-russian attitude is evident, as well as support for eu sanctions against russia. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution. it strengthens the rights of farmers and users of seeds and clearly defines that patenting of dna from crops is to be explicitly rejected.
in writing. ‒ patents on conventionally bred livestock and crops, their seeds and offspring, are unethical and upend thousands of years of farmers' rights. i therefore support this resolution and once again urge the commission and the competent ministers in the member states to urgently bring about clarity and, where appropriate, to tighten up the patent laws. practices that undermine the breeder's privilege must be stopped immediately!
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution rc-b8-1394/2015 is convincing with its reasonable and factual proposals. natural processes such as crossing, selection, etc. have been established for thousands of years and cannot be patented. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i would have voted in favour of resolution rc-b8-1394/2015 because it is convincing with its reasonable and factual proposals and believes that natural processes such as crossing, selection, etc., which have been established for thousands of years, should not be patented.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution rc-b8-1394/2015 is convincing with its reasonable and factual proposals. natural processes such as crossing, selection, etc. have been established for thousands of years and cannot be patented. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution. the constructive proposals for improving the situation in burundi and the clear indications of the dangers facing the country provide a good guide for eu action in its relations with burundi.
in writing. ‒ an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opposition figures is, of course, welcome. i therefore support the motion for a resolution rc-b8-1348/2015.
in writing. i would have voted in favour of resolution rc-b8-1348/2015 as it calls for an immediate end to the violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of the opposition and is, of course, welcome.
in writing. ‒ an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opposition figures is, of course, welcome. i therefore support the motion for a resolution rc-b8-1348/2015.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the protection of the national parks in the democratic republic of congo is important and the measures proposed are justified.
in writing. ‒ the preservation of this national park is very important. the natural flora and fauna of the national park is already under great threat. the report should help to ensure that conservation is successful. i therefore support this report.
in writing. i would have voted in favour of this report because it is committed to the conservation of the virunga national park. the natural flora and fauna of the national park is already severely threatened and sustainably damaged and urgently needs to be protected. the report should help to ensure that conservation is successful.
in writing. ‒ the preservation of this national park is very important. the natural flora and fauna of the national park is already under great threat. the report should help to ensure that conservation is successful. i therefore support this report.
