for the ecr group in the last few days, we in europe and the world have watched with great dismay and sadness as our european values of democracy, diversity, freedom and tolerance have been threatened and as we, as citizens, and our security have been attacked. these senseless and repulsive acts of violence and murder are beyond our comprehension and our reason. but out of the darkness that has surrounded us this past week, what binds us together has emerged stronger than ever: our values are the same. european citizens have raised their voices in large numbers, a voice that says: we are for freedom, we are for tolerance, we are together. this week has shown europe and the world that, no matter what happens, our values remain the same. we believe in freedom of religion, freedom to think and say what we want, but most of all in a society free from fear. the tragedies and suffering in france must strengthen our resolve. we can't fight amongst ourselves or point fingers at each other. the challenge is not just to ensure our safety, but also to connect our societies. only together can we come out of this stronger. no one is more or less because of his or her background. for us it is not the past but the future that is important. and that will be a future based on the fundamental european values and freedoms. we all share france's pain and offer our deepest sympathy. unfortunately, words cannot alleviate the pain, but we can promise today that when its values are threatened, europe will remain strong, free and united and will show its strength.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that terrorism has killed in europe, but never before has an attack caused such a shock, as demonstrated by the demonstration in paris yesterday, where mahmoud abbas and benjamin netanyahu were seen side by side. a symbol of freedom of expression, a core value of our democracy, has been targeted, and if we are all charlie here in this chamber, it is first of all because we are all europeans and committed to the secular system of the rule of law that we have built. let us not forget that among the three policemen killed were a black woman, a muslim and a frenchman. this shows that our societies are multicultural and that our rule of law is meant to give everyone a chance. but from madrid to london and now to paris, we must also admit failure. these terrorists are our children, born, raised and died on our soil. the sectarian isolation of some young people and the jihadist indoctrination of some is a phenomenon which affects the entire muslim world, but it also raises the question of our european role and responsibility. for far too long europe has believed that it can turn its back on the world's problems. the entry into iraq and the indifference towards syria are sources of terrorism. they have a huge impact on our daily lives and we must, together, create a capacity for action in our neighbourhood instead of, mr president, confusing islam with islamism, this theocratic ideology. islam has as much a place in our societies as christianity, judaism or any other religion or philosophy, and the huge crowds of people from all backgrounds who have come out in the last few days is living and vibrant proof of this. finally, we will have to take additional measures against terrorism at european level. this response cannot be in the form of a restriction of civil liberties, but must serve precisely to preserve them. the restriction of these freedoms is precisely the goal of terrorists. perhaps there is something positive, colleagues, in all this tragedy. last week, for the first time, another europe was born for me: the europe of the people, the europe of the citizens and above all the europe of values. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the directive on the posting of workers is a very sensitive subject for workers and for managers, particularly in the construction and road transport sectors. i am called upon daily by employers and citizens. social dumping is a real scourge, on which the rejection of the european project is based. it must be fought firmly. the implementing directive should correct some of the weaknesses of the secondment directive. but there is an urgent need for its transposition into national legislation. it must be ambitious in order to ensure the rights of employees and to put an end to abuse, fraud and unfair competition. in this area, national and european authorities must be able to rely on the experience and knowledge of the social partners. we must now consider the modalities of a partial revision of this directive.
madam president, two interviews given at the end of december by the president and the chief economist of the european central bank (ecb) show that there is a risk of deflation for the euro area and we are obviously aware of the dangers of this economic configuration: increased debt burden, falling demand and therefore consumption and, finally, rising unemployment. the price of oil products is certainly favourable in this respect, since it should restore some purchasing power to the citizens, but will this be enough to stem the risks of deflation? indeed, once again, austerity policies are now demonstrating the full extent of their negative impact, both in human and social terms and on the economic level. a tentative first step towards recovery has been taken with the plan proposed by the president of the commission, but i think it is clear that we must now go much further. two levers seem to me to be essential in this respect. firstly, the productive public investment which is made to stimulate the economy should be neutralised by changing the calculation of deficits, and therefore not only in the context of public contributions to the specific european investment fund. secondly, the ecb must play a greater role in the european recovery, in particular in preventing the risk of deflation. the tltro operation has thus shown the limits of the voluntary nature of private investment. it must therefore develop expansionary measures to promote public investment and thus act as a public lever to boost demand and employment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr renzi that i was pleased with his pro-european intervention, because i am a little anxious about italy when i see that in the latest opinion polls the three main opposition parties have around 40%. that is normal in a democracy, but these three main opposition parties are now parties against the euro and against more european integration. so my wish for you is that you succeed in your reforms in italy in order to stop this anti-european movement in your country, because we certainly need italy at the centre of the european union. i would also like to thank sandro gozi, who did the concrete work and was the link with parliament. i remember also the enormous contribution made by giorgio napolitano here in this parliament at the beginning of the year, showing the way for the future. i think when we look at the italian presidency, the most important feature of your presidency was to end this discussion, as mr weber has indicated, between fiscal discipline on the one side and growth and investment on the other. we need both. i think that can be the conclusion of this whole debate. but that is only the start of this work, because we now need this investment plan. i have to tell you, mr renzi, that what we need now – and i hope for your support in the next council – is for all member states to enter the guarantee scheme of that investment plan. the participation of member states will not count in the stability pact – that is certain, and we have known that from the beginning – so there is no reason why all member states should not enter the guarantee scheme of the investment plan to make it a success. i think that it is absolutely unacceptable that some of the member states are saying that this is not their business. secondly, we need real structural reforms – not only the announcement of structural reforms – in the near future. finally, we need a package of legislation to open these key markets, but we shall discuss that with the commission later. i have only one disappointment with the italian presidency, and that is that the telecoms package has not been concluded. let us be honest. we are talking here – everybody is talking – about investment, the digital world, google… we need to have an answer to that. are we not capable today, in 2015, of making an agreement with the member states on the digital market and on the telecoms package, getting rid of the roaming charges, installing net neutrality? so that is my only disappointment, but i hope that in the next six months under the new presidency, the italians can push forward that absolute need for a digital market.
mr president, mr renzi, as president juncker has pointed out, you were able to reach agreement on the 2014 and 2015 budgets. it was also possible to underline your willingness to put the emphasis on recovery and growth. but your presidency might have been better if you hadn't had two calendar handicaps. the first one, we see it every five years. it is the renewal of the institutions: the installation of parliament on 1 july, at the beginning of your presidency, and then the installation of the commission, chaired by mr juncker, on 1 november. it is only natural that the legislative process has suffered as a result. the second handicap is that experienced by all the presidencies of the second half of the year, which begin to work when, slowly, we enter summer, with two months which are not two months of work stoppage - in any case, the month of july has a continuity - but which are a handicap. so my proposal is this: could we not consider starting the six-monthly presidencies on 1 february and 1 august, so as to better distribute the two summer months, which are necessarily less productive?
i'm the reporter. - madam president, we are almost an hour and a half late, as has sometimes happened with the italian speakers who have preceded us. this was of course important, but i regret a little that my colleagues - and there are many of them - have so little opportunity to participate in the 'speech on demand' procedure. we have come a long way with this issue of gmo cultivation, as only a few months ago the situation was completely blocked on the part of the member states, which had been involved in endless legal disputes for almost ten years, with italy and poland, to take only the most recent examples, being convicted in 2013 and 2014 respectively for breaches of our european legislation. the council finally adopted a common position in july so that parliament could take up this text at second reading on the question of the freedom of choice of european countries to grow or not to grow gmos on their territory. my gratitude goes, of course, to the fictitious rapporteurs who have courageously accompanied me throughout this second reading: elisabeth köstinger for the epp group, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, lynn boylan, bart staes and eleonora evi, not to mention, of course, giovanni la via, the chairman of our committee on the environment, public health and food safety - i think he is here - who has, with great energy, facilitated the negotiations throughout the procedure. i would also like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who, at the end of december, gave their full support to the outcome of the trilogue: 42 votes in favour, 17 against. it is a very clear support which, i hope, i suppose, foreshadows the vote this afternoon. i now come to the substance of this legislation, which aims to revise the 2001 directive on the deliberate release of gmos into the environment and the 2003 regulation on food and feed containing these notorious gmos. it is important, and i do wish to make it clear at the outset, that its scope is limited here to cultivation. the text therefore does not concern imports or transport. the point here is not to open the more general debate on the usefulness or otherwise of gmos in agriculture and food. i come now to the heart of our work, to the voice of parliament and the results of this trilogue of the last hour, that is to say, the long night of 3 december and, of course, the progress made in relation to the position of the council last july, which is real. this is the case with the very important question of the coexistence of cultures. it was almost unanimously agreed by parliament to move forward on this issue. the two co-legislators made concessions, of course. this is the reason for the trilogue, but it is still the parliament's version that prevails, because, unlike the 2001 legislation, the minority of member states that grow gmos will now have to take mandatory measures in border areas to avoid possible contamination of traditional or organic fields. this is also the case with regard to the core of the directive, namely the famous opt-out procedures which a member state which does not wish to grow gmos can use. as regards phase 1, that is to say during the authorization procedure, with this new role which is de facto given to the applicant company, it is true that the european parliament has, broadly speaking, accepted the council's text, despite - and i have to say this and all my fictitious rapporteurs will confirm it to you - a total lack of room for manoeuvre by the member states and therefore by the council. the parliament's delegation did, however, make two major points. first, the lifting of conditionality between phase 1 and phase 2. the member state thus has two wild cards instead of one, two windows of opportunity to restrict the cultivation of gmos on its territory. it may negotiate with the seed company during the authorisation phase but it is no longer obliged to do so as in the council's july version. in addition, the member state now has ten years instead of two - this is essential - to oppose the cultivation of gmos on its territory and to act on this phase 2 on the basis of an open list of grounds. i am thinking of agricultural policy, soil and environmental protection and the socioeconomic impact of the second phase. last but not least, the council eventually relented and agreed to extend the ban to gmo groups defined by crop or characteristic. let us be clear - and i am addressing the uncertain ones here - that there is no other credible option than this agreement and the status quo, contrary to what i hear, is not one, except to be satisfied with the current legal jungle or to embark on an unlikely conciliation with an ever more inflexible council. clearly, a status quo would be the best way to prevent president juncker from completing his reform for more transparency and respect for the majority in the gmo authorisation procedure. the citizens are asking us to give the member states the means to respect their choice, their legitimate choice. with this legislation, we hear them and we move forward. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the example of the pioneer 1507 is clear: 19 member states opposed, 5 abstained and 4 voted in favour. president juncker has therefore announced that he will democratize the whole authorisation process. commissioner andriukaitis will have to come up with a proposal by may 2015. what's ahead is going the wrong way. it is a genuine trojan horse, which ultimately aims to break the resistance of a large number of member states in the council in exchange for the possibility of banning gmos on their own territory or parts of it. in reality, it is the renationalization of important european legislation. in that sense, this is an anti-european policy. the european parliament, the chief negotiator, mrs ries, the whole negotiating team, we have all succeeded in improving the final result considerably. that is our merit and was rightly emphasized by the previous speakers. the greens/efa will reject this text by a large majority. - why? - why? because the new law will lead to the renationalization of european policies. because the new law does not make the admission procedure more democratic. because we're letting the gmo giants play a role in the decision-making process through phase one. because the new law is not strong enough in terms of coexistence measures and will not prevent gmo crops from contaminating conventional and organic farming and, finally, because the scheme does not address the financial responsibility of those who may contaminate conventional and organic farmers. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. i think you are asking the wrong member of parliament. it is the services that organise the vote. i think it has always been the case that in votes of this kind, we first table the agreement reached at second reading - my group will vote against it - and then the result of the vote in this case is tabled in its entirety before the committee on the environment. the result in the committee on the environment is the result of a democratic vote which we cannot simply set aside. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. we must know what we are talking about. we have a european law, which we voted on here in the european parliament in 2001, which clearly regulates the authorisation procedure for gmos. since 2001, two gmos have been authorised, one of which is still in force, mon 810. the council of environment ministers has a large majority of member states - 19 of 28 with five abstentions at the last vote, 24 member states - who are absolutely not in favour. i think that the commission is now speaking and that it must do what mr juncker has promised, namely to ensure that this procedure is democratized and that a clear majority in the council also leads to a clear decision in favour or against. that is the task of the european commission and i hope that mr andriukaitis will ensure that, as he has promised, he comes forward with a strong proposal before 1 may 2015 that we can then discuss with all of you here.
this agreement is far from perfect, but as is often the case in politics, the ideal is the enemy of the good. it is good that we finally have an agreement, so that there is a legal framework, not only for the companies, but also for the consumers and for the governments. that's how we know where we stand. we are applying to the fullest extent possible the precautionary principle, which is essential in such cases, so that applications for gmos must be subject to very strict screening so that there is no risk to public health or the environment. the obligation to provide for buffer zones, particularly at the border, is of course also a good thing. let me refer to my own region, flanders, where there is already a strict legal framework in place today, so that in future producers will be obliged to take clear precautions and avoid any risk. in short, we now have a very clear, strict framework in europe, probably one of the strictest in the world for the authorization of gmos. and remember that in the near future, within four years, the commissioner will also be presenting an evaluation, so that we have additional guarantees.
in writing. the new gmo legislation will be on the agenda for the european parliament's votes this afternoon. we got a win. the member states of the european union are now free to decide whether or not to allow the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their soil. a real victory, the culmination of four years of legislative struggle. the pro-gm lobby, led by several multinational corporations and britain, ultimately failed. moreover, we have obtained a legal basis for the refusal of the implementation of gm crops, an extension of the list of grounds for prohibition. such grounds for prohibition could be, for example, land-use planning obligations, socioeconomic consequences, measures to avoid the accidental presence of gmos in other products or agricultural policy objectives. the prohibitions could also apply to groups of gmos determined by species or characteristic. we have also demanded binding coexistence measures. we have given the states the power to impose sanctions to prevent contamination of traditional crops by gm crops.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new four-year protocol for a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the main objective is to provide european union vessels with fishing opportunities in são toméan waters, while respecting the advice of scientific experts in the field. the second objective is to strengthen cooperation between the union and são tomé and príncipe to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the são toméan fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. the overall financial contribution of the protocol is eur 2 805 000 over the four years.
in writing. the union has negotiated with são tomé e príncipe a new fishing protocol for a period of four years to establish the terms and conditions under which eu-flagged vessels may fish in são tomé e príncipe's waters. the first fisheries agreement between the eec and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe was concluded in 1984. eight protocols have since been implemented, including two on the fisheries partnership agreement. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are very meagre. so there was an urgent need to remedy the situation. this agreement, in coordination with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should, in my view, promote a genuine sustainable development of são tomé and príncipe's fishing sector and related industries and activities, by increasing the added value that remains in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources. so i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and são tomé and príncipe is part of the continuity of the various fisheries protocols signed since 1984. i therefore welcome this agreement which will allow eu vessels to continue fishing in the archipelago's waters while guaranteeing financial compensation. the latter will support the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and related industries and activities in são tomé and príncipe. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the reliability of information on catches and the conservation status of fishery resources should be improved and that the archipelago's monitoring capacity should be developed.
in writing. the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the new eu/são tomé and príncipe fisheries agreement. the previous protocol, which was in force from 13 may 2011 to 12 may 2014, allowed the activity of 40 eu tuna vessels: 28 purse seiners and 12 surface longliners. the financial contribution was eur 682 500 per year, of which more than 35% was earmarked for supporting são tomé and príncipe's sectoral policy. a new protocol was initialled on 19 december 2013 and entered into force on 23 may 2014 for a period of four years. the project will benefit 34 eu vessels (28 tuna seiners and 6 surface longliners). the annual financial contribution was set at eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year, eur 325 000 of which was intended to support the sectoral policy of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text relating to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. i regret, however, that there was no debate when the agenda of this part-session allowed for it.
in writing. this 'access' agreement between the eu and the republic of seychelles will allow vessels flying the flag of a third country to fish in european waters. this agreement is beneficial to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and respects the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc on the conservation of the resource.
in writing. this agreement allows vessels flying the flag of seychelles to continue their activities in the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, despite the fact that mayotte became a french region that is part of europe as of 1 january 2014. it is important to emphasize that this is the first tuna agreement under which the european union allows non-eu vessels to fish in its waters on payment of taxes. the agreement allows eight tuna seiners to operate in mayotte waters under eu jurisdiction for the next six years in exchange for a licence and a fishing fee. i believe that this agreement will help to consolidate cooperation between the eu and seychelles by establishing high-quality fisheries in terms of sustainability, transparency, control and surveillance of the respective fleets. the agreement also benefits both parties, is beneficial to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and respects the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc on conservation of the resource.
in writing. since 1 january 2014, mayotte has been part of the european union as an outermost region of france. i therefore welcome the approval of this agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles authorising access to mayotte waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles. this agreement is of paramount importance as it concerns an exclusive competence of the union, namely the conservation of marine biological resources under the common fisheries policy (article 3 tfeu). the application of this jurisdiction to mayotte allows the continuation, within the framework of european standards, of a pre-existing private agreement between seychelles fishermen and mayotte. the island and local fishermen will also benefit from the fees collected from seychelles fishermen, in particular through the improvement of the mahorais port infrastructure.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the marine biological resources of mayotte. it is a partnership agreement which governs relations between the eu and seychelles in the fisheries sector. the agreement entered into force on 10 may 2003 and has been renewed twice since then. the agreement approved by the ep (paralled on 3 april 2014) provides for access to the 24-mile to 100-mile zone for 8 sliding-net tuna vessels and 2 seychelles-flagged refuelling vessels for a renewable period of six years. the zone 0 to 24 miles shall remain reserved for local mahora fisheries. this agreement allows a limited number of seychelles vessels (which traditionally fish in mayotte's waters) to continue fishing in the mahora exclusive economic zone. it should be noted that the territory of mayotte became an outermost region of the eu on 1 january 2014. before the change in status of mayotte, a private agreement governed relations between european and seychelles fishing vessels and mayotte.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague cadec's draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, under the jurisdiction of the european union. however, i can only regret that a preparatory debate was not held in plenary when the agenda easily allowed for it!
in writing. on the occasion of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, i welcome the agreement to conclude the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part.
in writing. bulgaria and romania are now part of the euro-mediterranean agreement. the aim of this agreement with tunisia is to promote a regular dialogue on political and security matters. the agreement also has an economic, commercial and financial component, aimed in particular at the progressive liberalisation of trade, the sustainable development of the region and investment.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the protocol to include bulgaria and romania in the ec-tunisia euro-mediterranean agreement signed on 17 july 1995 between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part. the association agreement aims to provide a framework for political dialogue between the parties and to lay down the conditions for the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital. it is vital that parliament should be involved in approving this type of agreement, which allows the european union to speak with one voice in the political dialogue with its neighbours.
in writing. the accession of new member states of the european union to the euro-mediterranean association agreement must be decided by means of a protocol to that agreement. the protocol is concluded by the council, on behalf of the member states, in accordance with a simplified procedure, and by the third country concerned, in this case tunisia. the european parliament was therefore invited to approve it, which i did by voting for this report (which does not in any way change the nature of the agreement itself).
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union and its member states, of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of bulgaria and romania.
in writing. the european parliament's approval of this protocol ensures that this association agreement creates a framework between the signatory parties which lays down the conditions for achieving free movement of goods, services and capital. i can relate to this completely. it is also important that the european parliament should give its consent to these types of agreements so that the european union can speak with one voice.
in writing. this report will open the door to a revision of the transport white paper focusing on sustainable mobility. it seems to me essential that we can rethink mobility in our cities so that it is more efficient and less polluting.
plant breeding is an ancient practice and is not only carried out by genetic engineering. the flemish interest is not against science but urges caution, because the dangers are known and real. it can lead to monoculture and dependence on agro-industries. the ries proposal is an apparent improvement. it does allow member states to restrict or prohibit its cultivation, but not its importation or trade in their territory. that's a double whammy. the farmers are not allowed to grow them, but the uninformed consumers are allowed to have the gmo products on their plates without being asked. because there , too , the shoe is twisting , of course: the ggo must be recognisable and identifiable, so as to guarantee freedom of choice for consumers and producers. that is why, to avoid any misunderstanding, i voted against this text, but with this explanation of vote.
in writing. i welcome the new regulation adopted by the eu parliament today, as it gives eu member states more and legally secured options to ban the cultivation of a genetically modified plant on their territory, even if it is legal throughout the eu. in the past, member states were required to submit new scientific evidence if they wished to ban the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos). if a so-called safeguard clause was imposed and not supported by new scientific evidence, suppliers of genetically modified organisms such as monsanto could sue the member state. in future, member states may also refer to political reasons such as land use or the socioeconomic impact of a crop. the commission also announced that it would develop a new legal framework to make the procedures for gmos more democratic. the new rules do not solve the problem of the use of gmos in the eu, however, as the import of these organisms - for example as animal feed - is still allowed in countries that have banned their cultivation. here too, stricter rules should be applied in order to better inform consumers in particular about the use of genetically modified feed throughout the food chain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it now allows member states to decide whether or not to allow the cultivation of gmos on their soil. the grounds for prohibition may, for example, be related to environmental criteria, land-use planning obligations or economic impact. the obligation to take measures to ensure the coexistence of crops and the desire to guarantee the transparency of the procedures for restricting and prohibiting the cultivation of a gmo should also be noted.
genetically modified organisms (gmos) are approved at european level on the basis of a scientific assessment by the european food safety authority (efsa). however, the very different opinions of the member states block this approval process. currently, 1 gmo is commercially grown in 5 member states in the eu. several member states have prohibited the cultivation of the gmo on their territory by means of a safeguard clause. after more than four years of negotiations, a vote was taken today on an opt-out for member states for european approved gmos. the commission hopes that this will help to break the deadlock in the approval process. the n-va supported the agreement. flanders is a leader in research into gmos and there are also many companies active. the nva wants to give innovation the necessary opportunities and believes that this agreement can contribute to this. moreover, the agreement addresses some of our specific concerns: the two-step procedure thus increases legal certainty. it is also essential that the flexibility provided does not jeopardise the credibility of the efsa risk assessment. there are a number of points which call for our attention in the implementation of this legislation. the possible fragmentation of the internal market, the situation in border areas and the workability of the rules should be monitored.
in writing. after more than four years of discussion, agreement has finally been reached on the delicate issue of gmo cultivation in the eu member states. as regards the authorization of gmos, the system remains purely european: it is the commission which decides, on the basis of scientific advice, whether or not to authorise a particular gmo. as far as the cultivation of gmos is concerned, it is up to the member states to authorise or prohibit it. i supported this agreement, which confirms the european character of the system and at the same time allows us to respond to the wishes of our citizens in the states where they are clearly against the cultivation of gmos.
in writing. i congratulate frédérique ries on the adoption of this report, which aims to give member states a broader legal basis to refuse the cultivation of gmos on their territory despite the authorisation of seeds by the european food safety authority. in the face of the concerns of our citizens, some member states want to prohibit further the cultivation of gmos. however, they are faced with a legal deadlock which calls into question compliance with the european legislation in force. this report therefore provides a better framework for the rejection of this crop, while at the same time giving member states greater flexibility.
in writing. the european parliament confirmed the agreement in principle reached in the trilogue in december on this compromise text which will amend directive 2001/18/ec and give member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. although it significantly improves on the european commission's original proposal and allows the eu to move beyond a status quo that is considered untenable, this compromise is certainly not the panacea. i therefore corrected my original vote because this new legislation is supposed to give the states the means to prevent the cultivation of gmos on their territory, but in fact gives biotechnology companies the power to negotiate with elected governments and excludes the main legal argument for banning these crops: the evidence of environmental damage. states should be the sole risk managers, retain their right to prevent the spread of gmos on their territory and should not require approval of companies seeking to profit from gm crops. this compromise is formalising the role of industry, which i reject. finally, i regret that this new compromise is a form of de federalisation.
in writing. the new gmo legislation was on the agenda for the european parliament's votes this afternoon. i voted yes, of course. we have won the case. the member states of the european union are now free to decide whether or not to allow the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their soil. a real victory, the culmination of four years of legislative struggle. the pro-gmo lobby, led by several multinational corporations and the uk, was ultimately unsuccessful. moreover, we have obtained a legal basis for the refusal of the implementation of gm crops, an extension of the list of grounds for prohibition. such grounds for prohibition could be, for example, land-use planning obligations, socioeconomic consequences, measures to avoid the accidental presence of gmos in other products or agricultural policy objectives. the prohibitions could also apply to groups of gmos determined by species or characteristic. we have also demanded binding coexistence measures. we have given the states the power to impose sanctions to prevent contamination of traditional crops by gm crops.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it supports the incorporation into eu law of measures to provide greater protection for certain underwater species, in particular going beyond the habitats directive.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), established in 1949, covers the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters. the main tasks of the cgpm are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, to design and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperation projects in the field of training. for example, the gfcm has adopted a number of measures to ensure that seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans are caught less by accident during fishing activities, and to protect sharks and rays from fishing activities. such measures go beyond the protection of these species already ensured at union level by the habitats directive. i voted for this report today because it proposes to amend regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down certain provisions on fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement in order to include the measures contained in the gfcm recommendations.
in writing. i voted for mr mato's proposal. the measures contained in it go beyond the protection of these species already ensured at union level by the habitats directive and other union acts, and provide for specific recording and reporting obligations for both operators and member states. in addition, the proposal implements into union law certain measures concerning the fishery for small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all: mr tusk, welcome; i should say good luck. i have always been a fan of yours; i always thought you were better in the liberal group than in the ppe group, but that is only a small remark. my only request to you is not to lose your pro-european behaviour and your pro-european opinions that you always had, because you are now leading a bunch of 28 prime ministers. you know how they are; you are one of them, and it will be necessary to see the general european interests and not only the addition of the interests of the 28, and that is your main task. i think you have two priorities for the coming weeks and months. first of all, this investment plan may work. until now we have called it the juncker plan; let us be honest, colleagues, we have to stop this. it has to become a tusk plan; it has to become a hollande plan; it has to become a renzi plan; it has to become a marco plan, a michel plan, a rutte plan; from the 28 – and that is the reason why i am a little bit disappointed by this council of december. let us be honest. it was a short council; i do not criticise it, but i would have preferred a long council, and then at the end, 28 member states saying yes to this plan and entering into the guarantee scheme of the investment strategy of the european union. because it does not count, even for the stability pact – we know it. that was one of the elements of the flexibility. so why was it not possible for the 28 member states simply to say: ‘okay, we are backing this investment plan and we are entering into the guarantee scheme behind it’? secondly, you have also to make the link with the structural reforms. it is not enough to have only announcements about structural reforms; a link between the structural reforms and investment plans is necessary. finally, i think that the commission has to come forward with a number of legislative packages to open up the markets, because an investment plan alone is not enough. but i think also that in that respect, mr tusk – i ask you, with your intervention, we have to deploy the telecom package. we are talking about the digital market; we are always looking to google because of their monopoly position in europe. but it is our own mistake, because we have no digital market. a telecom package is the first step to make it possible, and i think your second priority is also very clear: that is, to have a package to counter terrorism after the dramatic events in paris. let us be honest. i have here all the decisions taken by the council in 2001. i was president of the european council at that time, and we took three big decisions. there is a paper of 21 september, two weeks after the attacks of 9/11; of 19 october, a few weeks after the attacks of 9/11; and then december, laeken, more than 30 pages about our counter-terrorism strategy. you have to read it, because everything we are talking about today was decided already in 2001, and a number of things have been implemented – for example the european arrest warrant – after a long battle with mr silvio berlusconi, who was against it. he thought it could be used against himself, and that could have been possible; well, after a long battle, finally it has been realised. i think we have now the need to have a second package in the fight against terrorism – and that is your task for the coming weeks and the coming months – like we did just after 9/11. i see three elements in this. the first element is to retransform insen – what we have today does not work, it is a lose cannon – into a real european intelligence service, because the main problem today is not that we have a lack of collecting information; the problem today in europe is sharing the information. i can tell you, all those who were responsible for these attacks – last year in mumbai; in utoya, toulouse, paris, the jewish museum in brussels; in madrid, london; the killing of theo van gogh, the dunblane killings, boston – all the perpetrators were known by the secret services. it was a lack of sharing, a lack of common analysis, that we have in europe, and i think that is the first element of your package. the second element is: let us extend the possibilities of eurojust, of europol – blocked in the council, mr tusk, for the moment. let us also have a european prosecutor; let us also have (in my opinion) eu p and r but you have – the commission has – to present a new proposal which responds to parliament’s request – mainly the request that we need also a data protection regulation and directive before we can start with the p and r. finally, mr president (and i shall conclude with this), we have also to talk about strengthening our external borders. it is completely stupid what some people have been saying since the attacks in paris, that we have to come back to national border control. would that have helped? if you want to have a border in france, maybe you can make a border, as daniel cohn-bendit said two days ago, between the beaulieu of paris and the centre of paris. that is the reality. what we need is not to undo schengen; what we need is to have better external border controls, and that is the package and your task for the coming months. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – that is the most stupid idea that i have ever heard in this chamber.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr tusk, welcome to the house. i think poland has always been a great european state and i think that your arrival at the presidency of the council shows that poland has its place in the european council. in that respect, i'm glad you came. you said: 'it is time for serious political challenges' and i would first like to draw your attention to the seriousness of the social challenges. europe is the promise of shared prosperity. today, however, one in four europeans is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. one in four citizens is not shared prosperity and i have not read anything about this in the council conclusions, except, of course, that you want to join the investment plan. but even if he succeeded - which i doubt now - he would not guarantee the return of employment. even a reduction in unemployment would not yet be a guarantee of a reduction in inequality. look at the united states: unemployment is down and incomes are down at the same time. there are more working poor in the united states today than there were before the crisis. so if we want to solve the social challenge, we have to tackle the tax issue. you have mentioned some things about this but we would like to see some energy from the council to devote to the necessary tax harmonization, to put an end to the tax war that the member states are waging against each other. the second category of challenges: environmental challenges. poland has not had a very glorious history in this area. the environment, mr tusk, is not an adjustment variable, it is not a subject we deal with when we have nothing else to do. the environment is what allows you, me and all of us to live on this planet. if our environment becomes uninhabitable, humanity will disappear and, in this connection, i am very concerned to see that the environment is no longer on the commission's agenda, is no longer on the council's agenda and, in the end, is a concern that is left for later. there you have a boulevard in front of you with the energy union, which is more than a buying powerhouse to ensure the sustainability and security of our energy supply. the energy union, mr tusk, must be the european union's instrument for its energy transition, a transition that puts renewable energy and energy efficiency at the heart of its strategy with a triple dividend. first, strategic energy independence, which is an economic dividend because by leading the energy transition, we will be world leaders in transition technologies, and finally a climate dividend and an environmental dividend because we have helped solve this existential challenge for humanity. the third challenge to which i would like to draw your attention is the democratic challenge. this is the case in poland as it is everywhere in europe: the confidence of our fellow citizens in their democracy is diminishing with each election. people don't believe in that anymore! they no longer believe that we all stand for the common good. today, when decisions are taken in europe, they are more often taken under the influence of industrial or banking lobbies than in the general interest. i would like to take a few examples. when we have economic governance which in reality imposes decisions on member states in the areas of public service, social policy and fiscal policy without any democratic assembly giving legitimacy to those decisions, we are no longer in a democracy. i was very concerned to read in the council conclusions that you were looking forward to and that you absolutely wanted to conclude a free trade agreement with the united states before the end of 2015 at the very moment when hundreds of thousands of europeans are saying: 'we do not want the clause on a dispute settlement mechanism between investors and states'. what is the commission's response? "oh, it's not important, we don't care about that". we are sending a message to our fellow citizens that they do not count in democratic debates. so here's the third challenge. mr tusk, you have shown yourself to be a statesman. i hope that as president of the european council you will be able to meet these three types of challenges: social, environmental and democratic.
mr president, i would like to return to two points in the european council conclusions. firstly, the extreme caution shown with regard to the importance of public investment in the european recovery. yet, at a time when austerity policies have demonstrated their human and socio-economic damage, at a time when private investment is showing prolonged frugalness, is it not time to give public investment its full importance in reviving an economy that is still failing at the expense of jobs and people? should we not consider neutralizing public investment, which is the driver of economic and social growth, in the calculation of the debt? shouldn't the ecb also be more proactive in supporting these public investments? secondly, there is one element i would like to stress, namely the recognition by the council of the urgency of - i quote - 'doubling up efforts against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning at union level'. the council also stressed the importance of transparency and looked forward to the commission's proposal on the exchange of information on tax rulings. this is obviously a vital issue for the very existence of the union, which cannot be built on fiscal and social injustice. we will therefore remain fully vigilant in the coming months, including on the ongoing investigations, but we will also be a force of proposals to extend the mechanism for combating fiscal engineering which is harmful to the european project.
as an mep, i visited libya when the country still had a head of state to meet in a tent, set up in a maze of concrete walls. the head of state was then a joke and the unity of his country was a sham, covered by the vague title of chairman of the jamaharia, a conglomerate of the revolution, and by a military dictatorship. the concrete walls were not meant to protect the chairman of the jamaharia so much from the american missiles as he tried to make us believe, but above all, as it now appears, from the various horrible and bloodthirsty elements that inhabit libyan soil and houses, and that will never form a unity, but will always and at most be a forced aggregation. i hope you realize how little chance you have of creating a stable country and it seems appropriate to me as a westerner in general and as europe in particular to be a little modest after the huge failure of your political and military strategy on libya. the arab spring was not a revolution of democracy, but an illusion that has strengthened islamic terrorism more than anything else.
four years after the arab spring gave hope to a more democratic and free libya, the country threatens to become the second major war zone in the middle east. in addition to the islamic and secular militias, is is also active in all provinces. in a broader geopolitical picture, we see that egypt and the emirates are in direct opposition to turkey, qatar and sudan in their support for these militias. we must therefore be very concerned about the situation in libya and we must absolutely avoid disrupting neighbouring countries - i am thinking particularly of tunisia. if libya is not to be completely destroyed, an immediate ceasefire is needed and all relevant actors must be involved quickly in a kind of national transitional council, similar to the conference organized after the revolution. concrete commitments by the european union and the arab league are indispensable. madam vice-president, we support your efforts. the un talks must be given every opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, you concluded your presentation by saying: 'give me the arguments that will enable me to negotiate properly with the council.' i would say that i would ask the council to give reasons for not fighting this injustice of the poor representation of women on boards. are there any arguments we can hear that justify the fact that we are opposed to having more women on boards? i don't think so, and i'm not the only one. according to the eurobarometer, 88% of europeans think that women should be represented in management positions in companies and 75% support the adoption of european legislation to this end. so i say to the council, "go ahead, you have the support of the people". companies that have chosen to have women on their boards achieve positive results in terms of creativity, innovation, competitiveness, performance and governance. all of this should give you, the council and the member states, reasons to fight so that these women are actually properly represented on the boards.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam prime minister, welcome to this house. i have listened to you carefully and i have heard a speech that i hear here every day. in the five years that i have been a member of this parliament, i have heard talk of budgetary responsibility, structural reforms and investment. as far as investment is concerned, it is clear that this commission has been serious about it. but the rest - fiscal responsibility and structural reforms - is a common language and the objective of all these measures is the same: growth. i'd like to take a few minutes to look at this growth. if we look at the period 1985-2008, the 25 years before the financial crisis, what do we see? we have had 2% average annual growth in europe and the oecd tells us that during this quarter of a century we have had a concomitant increase in inequality in europe. but since the crisis, there is at least one european country, the one that provided us with the current president of the european council, which has a somewhat exceptional growth performance. this is poland, with an average annual growth rate of 2.7% since the financial crisis. however, in poland, the employment rate did not increase 2.7 per cent annual growth and no increase in the employment rate. so let's look at what's happening in the united states, which grew by five percent last year. what do we see? 5% growth and a decline in unemployment. however, the u.s. bureau of labor statistics tells us: "unemployment is not falling because the unemployed are finding work, but because they are leaving the statistics because they have given up looking for work". in other words, the employment rate is not increasing in the united states. and what about wages? will they increase? no, the wages are falling! with the recipes you advocate, what are we observing? the problem is not being solved and inequalities and poverty are increasing 25% of poverty and social exclusion in europe. so i wonder when you say we need to go back to growth. i'm glad to hear that's the case in europe, but i've been wearing glasses for a while and they might not be good i don't see it, or it's a growth behind the decimal point. you say the markets have regained confidence. i'd like to ask you a question. are we elected to satisfy the markets? would it not be interesting to ask the question of the trust, how stupid, of our fellow citizens? do our fellow citizens have confidence in our efforts to finally achieve the promise of a europe of shared prosperity, that is, prosperity for all, not just for the 1%, 5% or 20% of the population? that's the question i'm asking you! i would urge you to reconsider your programme and your language, and perhaps the structural reforms we need are not about lowering public services, wages and social protection. perhaps it is structural reforms that put the economy back in the service of the common good.
the latvian presidency will strive for a 'europe for its citizens' built on peace and freedom. the terrorist attack in paris has shown that these values have not been attained. together, we can come out of this stronger. we must continue to defend european values and freedoms, not just with words but also with deeds. in concrete terms, i am thinking of better protection of our external borders and a european list of suspected terrorists. the latvian programme also includes the strengthening of the internal market, one of the cornerstones of the european project. further completion is therefore essential. this is not a plea for more european legislation. no, we must go for less but better regulation, focusing on growth, jobs and competitiveness.
last week we witnessed the terrible terror in paris and yesterday 12 ukrainian citizens died in volnovakha when their bus was hit by a grad missile. all indications are that it was fired by pro-russian militias. should we not consider putting the leadership of the so-called people's republics of donetsk and lugansk on the list of terrorist organizations? you are charlie, you are volnovakha. the minsk agreement is four months old, but there is no peace in ukraine. on the contrary, russia does not seem to be interested in defusing the conflict and continues to destabilize and provoke. the way in which russia is holding ukrainian mp nadia savchenka is contrary to the basic principles of international relations. and in kaliningrad, russia held large-scale unannounced military exercises. i would like to be optimistic about the peace talks, but frankly, it's hard for me. the only way out is to implement the minsk agreements.
two key points of the post-2015 framework also relate to the terrible attacks in paris: the european union is a global player in the field of education. with universality, we are moving away from a 'us and them' mindset, which divides the world into 'developed' and 'underdeveloped' countries. the problems facing traditional developing countries are transnational and are also common in the industrialized world. real development is impossible without universal respect for human rights. the conditions in which terrorism can flourish are the same ones that development cooperation is trying to address: the commission has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been involved in the implementation of the european union's anti-corruption strategy. weak socioeconomic policies lead to greater inequality and contribute to the conditions in which radicalisation and violence grow. this applies both outside and within the european union. where governments retreat, radical organizations fill the vacuum and promote their dehumanizing ideas: the right-wing extremist group golden dawn in greece, is in iraq and syria or boko haram in nigeria. we must put our words into action by consistently and everywhere defending human rights and by changing the conditions in which radicalisation can grow by redistributing and showing solidarity with the weakest in every society, both within and outside europe.
mr howitt, you take the words right out of my mouth. three of my former colleagues from al-jazeera are still in a prison cell in egypt. i used to be a journalist. i 'll keep repeating it for as long as it takes: these people don't belong in prison, they just did their job and should be able to go home, no more! the controversial laws continue to undermine civil liberties. now ngos are banned from receiving funds from abroad and the power of the military is greatly expanded. military courts can now also arrest and prosecute civilians on the basis of the slightest evidence. all this is being legitimized in the context of the fight against international terrorism and islamism. that's a fight that matters. but does the end justify the means and is the cure not worse than the disease? that is why, mrs mogherini, i welcome your emphasis on human rights and the parliamentary elections in march and our monitoring of them are of crucial importance.
author. - madam president, first of all i apologise, but i was at a conference of presidents meeting and that is the reason why i am here only now. alexey navalny is one of the many russian citizens who work to uncover corruption in the system of vladimir putin, and the system of vladimir putin is capitalism for friends. the fabricated process against navalny’s brother is in my eyes yet another step to intimidate and silence his public activity. i find it particularly cynical and also very much like soviet-era tactics that they are now sentencing oleg navalny with the aim of controlling a political opponent by taking a relative as hostage. that is what is happening. it is important that we condemn this practice today and also encourage the court responsible to handle the appeal procedure in line with russia’s international obligations to hold a fair trial, free from political pressure. in that sense the resolution is deemed absolutely necessary. it is even more important to develop an eu strategy which would not only enable us to get russia out of ukraine and bring peace to europe but also give us tools to challenge the sense of impunity with regard to putin’s regime and support the russian people when they stand up for their rights. it is in that context that i want to conclude. high representative, i am pretty disappointed by what i have read in the press, reporting that the paper on better relations with russia that you have presented for the next foreign affairs council does not mention the human rights issue in russia.
i can only repeat what many colleagues have already said. dissident blogger aleksei navalny has become one of the most visible symbols of the russian opposition. the way he's fighting his house arrest is unprecedented in russia. his prison sentence was suspended, but his brother was imprisoned on the same charges. unfortunately, he is just one of many political dissidents who have to endure the constant harassment of the putin regime. it's almost impossible for russian ngos to operate independently of the kremlin. bloggers with more than 3000 visitors per day must disclose their identity and take responsibility for the information they publish. foreign ngos have to brave a rush of byzantine bureaucracy and far-reaching bullying measures. anyone who doesn't follow the rules is automatically a traitor or a foreign spy and risks heavy fines and penalties. it is our duty to continue to support all russian dissidents and free thinkers. fortunately, the regime's media blockade will never stop the exchange of ideas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the country has a thriving civil society and was able to oust two corrupt presidents. but we are particularly concerned about this new discriminatory legislation. this anti-lgbtqi law threatens to undermine the country's democratic and constitutional achievements. if this bill is enacted, it will be at the expense of essential human rights: the european union is committed to the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to equality, freedom of expression and the right to protection against discrimination and violence. i therefore think that we and you, mrs mogherini, should call on the kyrgyz parliament and the president to reflect on the question of the path the country wants to take when considering this bill. does the country want to continue to take over laws from the russian parliament, with the support of the kyrgyz grand mufti? or does it want to preserve freedom in central asia? i hope with all my heart that it chooses freedom.
in writing. the european ombudsman (or european ombudsman) investigates complaints about maladministration in the institutions and bodies (except the european court of justice) of the european union. this includes, for example, irregularities in administration, discrimination, abuse of power or failure to reply to letters. any eu citizen, company, association or other body established in the eu can lodge a complaint. since 1 october 2013, the office of the eu ombudsman has been held by emily o'reilly. in 2013, 23 245 citizens used the ombudsman's services. it dealt with 2 354 complaints, carried out 350 investigations and closed 461 investigations. the majority of complaints and inquiries came from belgium, germany, italy, poland and spain, and concerned mainly the european commission. i welcome the 2013 annual report and the work of mrs o'reilly, and congratulate her not only on her achievements but also on her good cooperation with parliament. your efforts to make the ttip negotiations transparent are commendable.
in writing. the ombudsman's 2013 report highlights that transparency and ethics are the topics most often addressed in complaints. this demonstrates once again the importance to be attached to transparency, openness, access to information and respect for citizens' rights and ethical standards in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the european public service.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of my colleague mr waleza's report. we have approved the annual report on the ombudsman. i regret, however, that the ombudsman does not speak to the elected representatives after his election, but he has undertaken to reinstate the practice of inviting the ombudsman to the plenary immediately after the vote.
in writing. the deterioration of the situation in libya, as well as the use of force, must not be left unanswered. the european parliament must ensure that democracy is restored in libya. i therefore welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. libya is now a country in chaos, with civilians being the first victims of violence. the european union must contribute, in coordination with the un, to stabilising the country, combating the humanitarian crisis and relaunching the process of democratic transition.
in writing. i condemn in the strongest terms the escalation of violence in libya and call on the parties to cease all hostilities in order to establish an inclusive political dialogue. in this i reiterate my support for the libyan institutions in place and call on them to act to enable a return to stability. by voting for this resolution, i support the civilian population and the efforts of the special representative of the un secretary-general, bernardino león, to mediate for respect for human rights and an end to violence. i also call on the european union and its member states to act in a coordinated manner to provide an effective response to support the institutions and to combat terrorist groups affiliated to al-qaeda and the islamic state in the region.
in writing. in adopting this joint resolution, the european parliament called on the european union to take targeted sanctions (including asset freezes and travel bans) against all those responsible for armed violence and human rights violations in libya and for the boycott of the un-led negotiations. concerned about the growing presence of terrorist groups and extremist movements in libya, i signed this resolution because i believe that such sanctions would support the efforts of the un special representative for libya, bernardino león, to establish a political dialogue. i believe that there is no military solution to the present conflict and i fully support the geneva talks which call on all parties to the conflict to accept the freeze of military operations proposed by mr león, in order to create a favourable environment for an unconditional ceasefire. the resolution also calls on the commission and the european external action service to direct action by the member states. the eu must help to establish a democratic, stable and prosperous state and address the humanitarian situation.
in writing. i voted for this resolution, of course. the news has caught up with us. the libyan prime minister, abdallah al-thenni, has just called on us to increase our support, including military support, to combat the growing threat of the jihadists of the islamic state group. "the international community is conducting an offensive against jihadists in syria and iraq, but in libya, only the state with the army is fighting terrorist groups and it is not receiving any help", said abdallah al-thenni. the prime minister of the internationally recognized government made the call just days before a un-sponsored meeting of the warring parties in libya was held in geneva. we are in favour of a political solution but we cannot decently remain deaf to the plight of civilians.
in writing. i strongly condemn the growing aggression and violence in libya. i call on the warring parties to cease hostilities and to begin a political dialogue in a stable framework. i fully support the efforts of special envoy bernardino léon and hope that the violence will end soon. i call on the european union and its member states to act in a coordinated way in dealing with this crisis.
in writing. until the situation in ukraine stabilises, the european union must continue to seek a political solution. the european parliament and the defenders of democratic values must not remain inactive when it comes to human rights violations. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. through this resolution, we support the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of ukraine. the new government must implement reforms to promote the rule of law, establish a reliable and impartial judicial system and protect minority rights. at the same time, all parties concerned must be urged to stop the violence in the east of the country, where civilians are the first victims.
in writing. i strongly condemn the violence in eastern ukraine and call for the implementation of the minsk agreements. its implementation is the sine qua non of political dialogue, which remains the only solution to the conflict. i would ask the parties to put an end to the belligerent rhetoric in order to avoid any radicalization. this dialogue must be conducted with respect for the national, regional and local levels of governance - while respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine - in order to establish a decentralised ukrainian state. i attach great importance to the provision in the resolution calling for the improvement of the union's energy security, its independence and its resilience to external pressures, in particular through the establishment of a european energy union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which calls on all parties to implement the minsk protocol in its entirety without further delay and thus demonstrate their genuine commitment to de-escalation of the conflict. the resolution also calls on russia to allow international control of the russian-ukrainian border, to use its influence with the separatists to ensure that they respect the ceasefire and to work constructively towards the implementation of the minsk agreement. parliament also encouraged confidence-building measures to support peace and reconciliation efforts and stressed, in this context, the importance of an inclusive political dialogue and an economic programme for the economic recovery of the donbass.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. the continuation of the russian embargo is still relevant as the situation continues to develop in a way that is contrary to european values. on the other hand, we decided to grant new macro-financial assistance to ukraine in the form of medium-term loans of up to eur 1.8 billion. this assistance, which must be approved by the council of ministers and the european parliament, is to help ukraine cope with the major difficulties it is facing, including its weak balance of payments and budgetary situation. "our actions speak much louder than our words. the european union has already provided unprecedented financial support and today's proposal shows that we are ready to continue. that is what european solidarity is all about. however, there are conditions: the final tranche of eur 250 million is due to be paid shortly, subject to the correct implementation by ukraine of the agreed measures. the eu's assistance is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev must meet a series of reform criteria, whether in the budget, banking, energy or judicial system.
in writing. i believe that the implementation of the minsk agreements is the only way out of this crisis at the moment. the two warring parties must immediately cease fighting and enter into dialogue. i call on russia to withdraw its troops from ukrainian territory. a solution to the ukrainian conflict will allow the european and russian sanctions to be lifted. that would be a great help to european fruit growers who are suffering greatly from the russian ban on european fruit imports.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution. the deterioration of the situation of freedom of expression must not be allowed to go unanswered. we must defend the foundations of democracy and human rights worldwide and condemn any attempts to undermine them.
in writing. egypt plays a key role because of its regional importance. it is an important interlocutor for the european union. it is imperative that the egyptian authorities meet expectations with regard to the democratic transition and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i condemn the ongoing human rights violations committed by the egyptian authorities since july 2013, including in relation to freedom of expression, and call on them to release those currently in prison for exercising this right. freedom of expression and freedom of the press are part of the broader concept of governance, which is at the heart of the european union's development strategy. a free and accountable press, which follows strong ethical principles, is an indispensable feature of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. concerned about the human rights situation in egypt, parliament called for a ban on exports of security equipment or military aid which could be used to suppress peaceful protests or against the eu's strategic and security interests. by signing this joint resolution, i supported an eu-wide ban on the export to egypt of intrusion and surveillance technologies that could be used to spy on and repress citizens. because i am gravely concerned about the restrictions on fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression, association and assembly, political pluralism and the rule of law, i call in this resolution for an end to all acts of violence against political opponents, demonstrators, journalists and civil society actors. it calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners of conscience, all those detained for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, and those detained for alleged membership of the muslim brotherhood.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. egypt is in a complicated process of ending the crisis following a period of great instability. we must help it in its transition process and the european union could offer itself as an intermediary, if egypt so wished, to work with all parties to achieve national political reconciliation. we should promote civil peace and holding parliamentary elections is a positive step. the objectives must be to achieve social and political peace, to combat terrorism and to protect human rights. egypt will hold its next parliamentary elections in march and april 2015. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. freedom of expression and press freedom have come under heavy fire in egypt since 2013. i condemn these human rights violations in the strongest terms. both are foundations of the rule of law and as the european union we must do everything we can to protect them, both within and outside our borders.
the flemish interest is in solidarity with the colleagues of lega nord in this and i also underline our great concern about the fate of those italian marines. they must be able to return home immediately without any further restriction on their freedom of movement, which is totally unacceptable. we also regret the way in which the matter has been handled by successive italian governments. we do encourage mrs mogherini to take all the necessary steps to achieve a rapid and satisfactory result in this case.
in writing. on the evening of 15 february 2012, two indian fishermen were killed by two italian marines (marò) in an accident off the coast of kerala, india. the latter were on board an italian merchant ship to protect it from possible pirate attacks. fearing such an attack, they fired warning shots at an approaching fishing boat carrying the two fishermen who were tragically killed. the incident led to the arrest of the two marò, without any charges being brought against them. i welcome the motion for a resolution because it supports the efforts of the italian and indian parties to work towards a fair and acceptable solution for all to enable a positive clarification of the case.
in writing. we are here first of all to deal with a sad case where two indian fishermen tragically died. it is extremely worrying to note that the italian seamen are still being detained without charge three years after the events. the rule of law must be respected in this respect by ensuring that the rights of the two alleged authors are fully respected. we must also work towards a mutually acceptable solution in the interests of both families, indian and italian, and of both countries.
in writing. two italian seamen operating on the enrica lexie vessel were arrested by indian authorities after opening fire on an indian fishing vessel, killing two fishermen. the presence of the riflemen on the italian merchant ship was part of the fight against piracy. i regret that two people were killed and i offer my deepest condolences to the families and friends of the victims. it is, however, essential that the two european nationals arrested by the indian authorities are effectively guaranteed respect for fundamental rights and that a balanced diplomatic solution between the various parties is found in a short time. i invite the high representative to take up the matter.
in writing. in this resolution, which was voted, the european parliament stressed the need to ensure the repatriation of the two italian soldiers accused of killing two indian fishermen in 2012, whom they had mistaken for pirates. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to effectively combat terrorism. regretting the way in which the case had been handled, parliament therefore supported the efforts of all parties concerned to seek a reasonable and mutually acceptable solution without delay.
in writing. the situation of the two italian "maro" (marine riflemen) in india is scandalous. the supreme court of india refused to examine the two requests by the italian maro. "the investigation into the deaths of the fishermen is not over. and the charges have not yet been brought", the court said, as quoted by the italian press. the indian judges refused to extend massimiliano latorre's convalescence in italy for a further period of four months; unless otherwise decided, he is expected to return to india on january 13, the end of his leave. they also rejected salvatore girone's request for permission to return to italy for christmas. the eu's high representative, federica mogherini, said in a statement published on tuesday evening that she was "disappointed" by the decision and regretted that a "mutually agreed solution" had not been possible. the situation of these two european military men has been on hold for almost three years now. the european union has always called for a mutually acceptable solution, in the interests of italy and india, based on international law and the principles of non-proliferation and non-discrimination.
my party, the nva, regrets that parliament was unable to give a clear signal today on the commission's work programme for 2015. parliament is thus missing an appointment with the future and at the same time is shooting itself in the foot. the limits of the so-called grand coalition were clearly reached. this artificial coalition is paralysing parliament and seriously jeopardizing the unique freedom of this house to form new coalitions on a case-by-case basis. we supported the ecr resolution and stressed that the work programme contains many positive points. growth, jobs and competitiveness must be at the heart of the next five years. we strongly believe in smarter legislation and fully support the commission's willingness to act in those areas where europe has a tangible added value. this is precisely why we believe it is crucial that efforts to promote a circular economy and air quality remain high on the agenda. two packages which, moreover, enjoy wide support, not only in this parliament but also in the council and among the sectors concerned and the citizens.
in writing. the european commission's work programme contains the actions it is planning for the year now underway. in 2015, the focus will be on growth, jobs and investment. the commission has initially launched a number of concrete initiatives (digital single market, european energy union, migration policy, fair taxation, etc.) which can have their full effect, especially at eu level. it also means that, through the so-called 'refit programme', wasteful and cumbersome legislation is reviewed and amended accordingly. finally, it also intends to withdraw older legislative proposals which are more suitable for achieving the objectives pursued. i welcome this work programme because it is fully in line with the principle of subsidiarity and is a major step forward in reducing eu bureaucracy.
in writing. in the face of the socioeconomic situation and the risk of deflation, the far too high level of unemployment and the unacceptable number of people living in poverty, the commission has no choice but to implement a recovery strategy based on a broad plan of private and public investment in order to create massive employment, especially for young people. these priorities, as well as the social dimension, should have been much more clearly stated in the commission's 2015 work programme. the same applies to the need for decisive action to combat tax fraud and evasion and aggressive tax planning at eu and global level. europe cannot be built on social and fiscal injustices. i supported the s&d motion for a resolution which stresses these absolute social and human priorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the socialist resolution and in favour of the green amendments. in other words, i voted in favour of what i felt was progressive, calling on the european commission to come up with a real roadmap. i would like to point out in this connection the shortcomings of the commission, which at no time asked for parliament's opinion in the preparatory work. at the time of writing, there is still a lot of uncertainty about some of the texts whose adoption is uncertain in 2015, but also about the motives behind other texts. the transparency is zero!
we have supported this resolution on the attacks on freedom of expression in turkey because it is a strong signal that turkey is losing more and more of its credibility in europe and in the free world. since erdogan took over the country in 2002, he has become the biggest oppressor of the free press. despite the massive international attention to this problem, journalism remains a life-threatening profession that can result in prison sentences of up to 166 years. the arrests of journalists and the brutality of the arrests show me that the turkish rule of law has a gigantic problem. the european parliament has always been a party to the european convention on human rights. moreover, erdogan's only response is that even more journalists, and i quote, "will see the inside of a prison cell". we must draw conclusions from the increasingly authoritarian nature of this regime, not least in the accession negotiations. because what is happening is not good for turkey or for europe, for credibility.
in voting against this resolution i wanted above all to protest against the fact that the majority in power here has still not wanted to recognize clearly and explicitly that turkey cannot be a member of the european union and, on the contrary, even the resolution is entirely focused on accession and pre-accession support. my party is saying this from its viewpoint of what european cooperation and european unity can be and, in this case, what they cannot be. we have not waited for the arrival of erdogan and his islamist party, which year after year and time after time shatters the illusions that turkey could be a source where islam and democracy could emerge as compatible. yesterday, in the midst of the charlie hebdo crisis, we received news here in the heart of europe that the diyarbakir court has blocked all websites that published the revenge cartoons. through all the confusion, one thing must be clear: turkey is not a european country and has no european tradition in the field of freedom of expression and human rights. the situation did not improve under erdogan, on the contrary, membership of the european union is not only problematic, but must be rejected on grounds of principle.
in writing. in recent years, press freedom in turkey has come under increasing pressure. many journalists and media officials, including zaman newspaper editor ekrem dumanlı and samanyolu broadcasting group ceo hidayet karaca, have been prosecuted, imprisoned or are still awaiting trial. i deeply regret that politicians are making statements of intimidation and using anti-terrorism laws to prosecute journalists who oppose certain government practices. beyond the outrageous arrests, it also leads to widespread self-censorship. turkey must reverse this trend and consolidate its efforts to strengthen democracy within its own country. fundamental rights such as freedom of the press, the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial and the rule of law must be effectively guaranteed.
in writing. in this joint resolution, which i supported, parliament condemns the police raids and the detention of several journalists in turkey on 14 december. parliament also called on the turkish government to defend more fully the freedom of the media and stressed that a free and pluralistic press was an essential component of any democracy. it called on the turkish authorities to provide 'complete and transparent information on the allegations against the defendants, to grant the defendants unrestricted access to the evidence against them and to the rights of the defence and to ensure the proper handling of cases in order to establish the veracity of the allegations without delay and beyond a reasonable doubt'. with freedom of expression and media freedom being the cornerstone of the functioning of a democratic and open society, i am very concerned about the backsliding of democratic reforms in turkey and, in particular, the government's declining tolerance for public demonstrations and critical media. freedom of the media must be a priority for ankara, which must put in place the necessary legal structures to guarantee this freedom!
in writing. violations of press freedom in turkey are as numerous as they are unacceptable. intimidation, arrests, violence, bullying - the turkish government has gone far beyond the bounds and is acting illegally in the face of international law! i abstained on this vote, however, because paragraphs 7 and 8 were added to the original version, which i fully endorsed, and which, in my view, make the text heterogeneous. a resolution focusing mainly on the infringements of freedom of expression would have been more effective, without using this text to convey other messages as the epp wanted.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution. the deterioration of the situation of freedom of expression must not be allowed to go unanswered. we must defend the foundations of democracy and human rights worldwide and condemn any attempts to undermine them.
mr president, first of all, i am very pleased that my colleague from the epp wants to have a debate on the attacks in paris and the measures to be taken, because i remember that at the meeting of the conference of presidents last time, the epp was not yet convinced that there should be a debate today on this issue. i therefore welcome this change of position and my proposal is in fact to try to have a common position from parliament before there is a european council meeting on the 12th.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my message this afternoon in this debate is clear. we have to work together in this parliament and we cannot waste time. two weeks after the attacks on charlie hebdo we must take a leap forward, and we must conclude in the european union a broad and ambitious package to tackle terrorism. we have to do this as parliament together with the commission and together with the council because it is a common task and there is a common goal to be achieved. in fact, what we have to do is to repeat what happened after 9/11. after 9/11, in 2001, alongside other measures we decided on a package and created the european arrest warrant, which at that time represented a dramatic change in europe because previously it had taken years to secure the extradition of a suspect. sometimes it took 10 years to bring someone back from the uk to france whereas since we have had the european arrest warrant it takes just days to transfer a suspect or a criminal from one country to another. we need the same level of ambition now: not to do the same things, because the threats have changed, but to have a similar package to strengthen our security in europe – and two things are at stake here. first of all, we need a common capacity to analyse the information and the risk, because that is lacking in europe. in all major terrorist attacks over the past 10 years, mr kirkhope, the perpetrators have been known to the services of the different countries. the problem today is not so much that we do not collect the info; the problem is that we do not share the info between our services in europe. that is the main problem. we have to create what we are calling ‘euro-intel’ – a system for sharing information and for common analysis of risks. i have heard a number of people today saying that this is not possible under the terms of article 4 of the treaty. well, i can tell you that in the last parliamentary term we changed the treaty twice: once to have 18 more members of parliament and the second time to introduce the european stability mechanism to save the banks. if it is possible to change the treaty on the fast-track procedure to save the banks, it has to be possible to change the treaty to increase the security of european citizens here in this european union. secondly, we must not make the error of the nationalists and the populists, namely to say that the problem is schengen. the problem is not schengen. the problem is that we are not sufficiently solid among ourselves to strengthen the outside borders of the schengen area instead of reinstating internal borders. finally, on passenger name records (pnr) i want to say just one thing, since mr kirkhope has spoken about this. we are in favour of a european pnr system but it has to go together with guarantees and with the protection of data and privacy. it is clear that mr pittella is right: this is about safety and freedom at the same time. and one last sentence about the targets in this debate: you cannot abuse the death of charlie hebdo as some are doing here in this parliament, ms le pen, mr farage. this is not about a war between civilisations and religions: it is about a war against criminals and terrorists, and that makes all the difference.
in southern europe, only marginal security checks are carried out on incoming refugees with papers, in the best of cases. but undocumented refugees are screened differently. some eu citizens also pose a security risk. i think, for example, of returning warriors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i have the impression that the external border with turkey, for example, is in practice far too porous. to address this, common risk indicators should be developed as a first step. i think that these are definitely priorities that are not being sufficiently addressed.
as a fleming and therefore for the time being a citizen of the kingdom of belgium, i would like to apologise to all the victims of islamic terrorism. belgium specifically was threatened by isis with car bombs and beheadings in a youtube video today, along with france. belgium is called the "little sister" of france, bad enough. the koulibaly weapons, from the kouachi brothers, were bought two kilometers away, in the brussels south station area. several terrorist cells have been spotted on belgian soil in recent days. there is a connection between this terrorism and the way in which immigration has been handled here in belgium, the immigration policy of the socialist parties of belgium for decades. and their political allies, who opened the borders of this country. for years, handing over belgian papers without conditions and without imposing restrictions has produced a monster. i repeat: i apologize on their behalf to all the victims of terrorism.
in writing. the withdrawal of citizenship is as populist as it is stupid. this is nothing but a lack of responsibility, the exact opposite of the response to terrorism and intolerance! finally, and most importantly, the withdrawal of citizenship is as stupid as sending your kid back to the orphanage at 16 because his behavior doesn't suit us... belgium and the european police are thwarting a lot of attacks. they don't talk much about it so as not to cause panic, but at the same time it's reassuring. in france, the head of the counter-terrorism unit was very clear: we don't need more data, we already have too much. we need more police officers. this is also my view: if we lose individual freedoms to security, we lose both. and the abandonment of these individual freedoms in favor of so-called greater security is a victory for terrorists. what is needed is not to reduce the number of police officers (under sarkozy, the number of police officers was reduced five times in five years of five-year term) but to increase the exchange of information between european police forces.
a lot has been said about greece. i think that we should not be debating this now, but we can learn something from it. firstly, that you have to respect democracy, that's obvious. second, that there is a growing support among the population to say: i am not saying that we should not be concerned. then we can have a long discussion about what that means. but i think that a different european policy is not only necessary, we will also put it into practice. we may be more ambitious, but the fact that this investment plan exists is very important. it is crucial that we can deal with this. in debates on the future we often talk about structural reform. i get that a lot. we in the s&d group are in favour of structural reforms, but there is of course a debate about which structural reforms. well, i have one on which we may be able to reach a consensus fairly quickly - and perhaps the most important structural reform for the future, the transformation of our economy into a sustainable green economy. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made some progress in this area. let us find a broad consensus on this and let us also incorporate it in this regulation on our investment plan. i think that's very important. there has already been an analysis - and i am looking at my colleague bas - of all the proposals that are there, and that is a whole package, and it shows that more than 600 billion of the questions are related to good initiatives for a low-carbon economy. 25% of the proposals concern coal, nuclear energy, etc., but we already have proposals for 600 billion, so actually twice what is available, which can fully invest in this sustainable economy. the role we are going to play in parliament is to anchor that, to ensure that we are not just investing, but that we are investing in a meaningful, sustainable and forward-looking way.
in writing. the economic recovery in the union is still subject to very high uncertainty and the risk of deflation is very real. the efsi is thus a tool that can and must contribute to recovery in a context where private investors remain hidden and public investment is curbed by socially dramatic austerity in some countries and economically unprofitable for the union. the public guarantee which is the basis of the recovery plan must be, at the very least, a lever for improving the welfare of european citizens. the principle of flexibility, which is gradually gaining ground, would also require that public investment going through the efsi be excluded from the calculation of deficits for the states concerned. this is of course essential to revive social projects and promote employment. but the socioeconomic situation of the union requires going one step further. flexibility must also be applied to other strategic public investments that will create jobs and socioeconomic redeployment. this includes local and regional government investments, which are constrained by the new accounting standards, but which contribute to economic activity without having a significant impact on debt.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, the paris climate change conference at the end of this year is expected to adopt a new global climate agreement for the post-2020 period. this new agreement should be universal and capable of keeping us on track to limit the average global temperature increase to below 2°c relative to pre-industrial levels. the intergovernmental panel on climate change has indicated in its latest synthesis report that the target of 2°c and global emissions reduction of 40-70% compared to 2010 are needed by 2015, and that emission levels should be near zero or below in 2100. we have less than 10 months and we need to use this time efficiently. the results of the lima climate change conference, and a sense of urgency expressed by world leaders at the un climate summit in september, provide a necessary impetus for the work this year. the lima call for climate action, adopted in december, contains two main outcomes. the first is guidance for the communication of proposed emission-reduction targets, the so-called ‘intended nationally determined contributions’, and the second is the preparation of elements for the draft negotiating text for the paris agreement. in the paris agreement, all parties should have legally binding mitigation commitments, but levels of ambition and commitment types will differ. intended nationally determined contributions should therefore allow each party to choose its contribution type and define its level of ambition, in accordance with its national circumstances and capabilities. in october last year, eu leaders endorsed a target to reduce the eu’s domestic emissions by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 1990, in line with its long-term objective of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050. the strategic framework is now to be translated into an eu intended contribution.the presidency of the council is determined to ensure that the eu intended contribution is submitted to the secretariat of the un framework climate change conference within the first quarter of 2015. we expect other major economies to come forward promptly with their contributions as well. the paris agreement should go well beyond mitigation targets capable of delivering on the below-2°c objective. it should also be dynamic, with inbuilt flexibility and capacity to respond to evolving circumstances, responsibilities and capabilities. it should provide a long-term vision of the need for transformation towards a lower-emission and climate-resilient economy and it should enable broad and effective participation. let me underscore that, despite the significant progress, there are still important issues on which a shared global vision has yet to emerge, in particular on differentiation between countries’ obligations on the legal form and force of the paris agreement. intensive negotiations will be needed in order to find common ground on these outstanding core issues. the presidency of the council will make all possible efforts to ensure effective european union participation at the international negotiation sessions. outreach activities planned to take place throughout 2015 will be a crucial element in this process. they will contribute to the ongoing discussions. we have to talk to our partners all around the world to try to find common ground. moreover, in order to ensure an appropriate background for negotiations, we need to make sure that the eu’s efforts on emissions reduction and support for developing countries are adequately recognised. the presidency of the council will also stimulate eu-internal political debate on climate change with a view to the paris conference. the environmental council in march will be the first opportunity to discuss the eu’s expectations and strategy.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to have this opportunity to exchange views on the european union's plans and activities on climate action, in connection with the conclusion of a global climate agreement which we want to reach in just over ten months' time at the united nations summit in paris. first of all, i would like to share with you my assessment of the lima conference. i had the opportunity to do so with the representatives of this house during that conference, in the framework of the daily meetings we held during the last cop. so, as many of you know, i consider the lima cop to have been an important step in our efforts to reach a global agreement in paris. i would like to highlight three conclusions of the lima conference. firstly, the decision to reiterate the need for all countries to submit their respective national contributions to reduce emissions by the end of march, known in english as intended nationally determined contributions. secondly, agreement was reached on the reporting requirements, which should describe these contributions in a clear, transparent and understandable way. finally, the decision mandated the united nations to prepare a synthesis report once all the respective contributions had been submitted. this report should enable us to assess the progress we are collectively prepared to make to keep global warming below two degrees celsius. lima has also been a tangible demonstration of the unity of the european union. there was a great deal of cooperation between the ministers and with the european parliament. we were able to react to changing circumstances in a satisfactory way and i hope that collaboration will continue throughout this year. however, much remains to be done this year. the draft elements of the final text of the agreement are too long and contain excessive options. the legal form of the future agreement, climate finance and the differentiation of national contributions to emission reductions are also very important issues that remain to be resolved. in order to articulate clearly our vision of the objectives that the paris agreement must achieve, in the coming weeks i will be presenting to the college of commissioners a communication entitled 'the paris protocol, a blueprint for fighting climate change beyond 2020'. this communication has two main objectives: firstly, to describe how we intend the paris protocol to be dynamic, transparent and legally binding and as such capable of responding to economic and geopolitical realities; and secondly, to translate the objectives of the european union's 2030 climate and energy strategy into our contribution to emission reductions, in line with the information transparency requirements agreed in lima. the communication will reiterate that we must work hard to reach an agreement in paris that applies to all. the united states and china have committed to action, and together with the european union, we would account for almost half of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. but all countries that can must submit their national contributions to reduce emissions this year, as we agreed in warsaw. all the g20 countries and other major economies are certainly in a position to do so. but, in parallel, and throughout 2015, we must mobilize our energies in the area of climate diplomacy, we must continue to engage with our partners and friends about our vision for the new agreement and encourage them to submit their national emissions reduction targets. the commission is certainly committed to working to maintain the european union's leadership on climate action and, together with the vice-president of the commission, federica mogherini, we will work to raise awareness among all international actors during this year. next week i will be in washington to meet with my counterparts from the state department, the energy department and the white house and on 4 february we will hold a meeting with chinese minister xie zhenhua and the secretary general of the united nations framework convention on climate change. last week the vice-president and high representative and i presented a climate diplomacy plan to the foreign affairs council which was supported by the foreign ministers. the joint implementation of this plan will contribute very positively to raising awareness in a large number of countries, both at bilateral meetings and within the framework of the g7 and g20. finally, i would like to say a few words about climate finance, an issue which is essential not only for the paris agreement but also for the credibility of the european union as an international actor. in 2013, the european union and its member states contributed €9.5 billion in climate finance, but there is no doubt that the european union and its member states need to continue their efforts. together with the ministers of finance and development cooperation, we must be able to engage with our partners on this fundamental aspect, in order to complete an ambitious agreement in paris. in addition to the climate negotiations we are also negotiating the post-2015 sustainable development goals. on this issue, commissioners vella and mimica are leading the work within the commission, and we will work together to ensure that our action is consistent. at the same time, we will continue to work together with the private sector and other international institutions, such as the world bank, to mobilize more resources. the success of the european union depends on the ability of parliament, the commission and the member states to speak with one voice. i will therefore continue to work closely with this house and the council to reach an ambitious, legally binding agreement in paris that applies to all countries.
on behalf of the ppe group i think we can say that the european union still has the most ambitious climate policy in the world: 40% reduction by 2030. i don't think anyone does it better. meanwhile, while india and china are moving slowly, there is some reason for optimism about paris. in canada and australia, on the other hand, political leaders have yet to see the light. let it be. we hope that something will happen there too. but we must look to ourselves first, finish our own homework. that means we want to double-track. on the one hand, as the commissioner said, we must pursue an ambitious climate policy, and on the other hand we must also pursue a strong economy. we are convinced that these two things go hand in hand. this requires a balanced reform of our unique ets system. the first is the market stability reserve system, which we need in the short term to make the ets a stable system. and also a system which is shock proof, which means that it is resistant to shocks and that we must have a good solution for the back loaded allowances, which is at the same time balanced. i am referring to the ets reform with the market stability reform, so that industrial companies investing in sustainable technology are given full opportunities and are encouraged. to ensure that we do not get into a situation where sustainable production moves out of europe to just across the border, outside the european union, where there is no ets system. so it is about trying to achieve these 2030 targets with all sectors, ets and non-ets. [ the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8))
"blue card" is the answer. i am very glad that you are asking this question, because it is one of the essential elements of this reform of the ets system. i think that the european council of 24 october last gave very important guarantees to poland, hungary and other member states of the former 'eastern bloc', as they say. they must indeed have those guarantees, transitional measures must be provided to make a balanced transition so that there are also carbon leakage measures, and we can give guarantees to energy-intensive energy.
on behalf of the s&d group, it's january, so we can still have new year's speeches. that means looking back at 2014 and making good intentions for 2015. i could be ominous and say: 2014 was the hottest year on record, and that should worry us. but 2014 - the commissioner has spoken about it - was also the year in which an agreement was reached on lima. we might be pessimistic, but the good news is: we have an agreement, let's build on it. it has already been said, it is very important that we look at ourselves in the coming months and set a good example. we have a responsibility in the world to do that. we've already had some talk about climate diplomacy. very well, commissioner, we are in full support of that. we think it's very important. but looking at the responsibility also means looking at the funding. and mr belet, who has a special responsibility in this matter, has already spoken about it. i think it is symbolic for the coming weeks if europe actually succeeds in taking its responsibilities. i would like to make a gesture, which i do not often make, to the ppe group: let us make a good agreement together, not like what happened in ithaca. let us be ambitious and realistic, and that means: we are not going to be able to do that. that is crucial. [ the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8)).]
"blue card" is the answer. i agree with the latter. energy efficiency must be the top priority of the juncker plan. secondly, i believe and hope you agree that it is very important to take responsibility in the world for pollution. at the same time, we are very innovative in finding solutions. in our country, many companies, steel companies, chemical companies, are among the top in the world in terms of energy efficiency. i know that we have to take further steps in eastern europe, including in your country. and europe must be united in ensuring that this happens.
mr president, i think everyone is well aware of what the yalta conference meant for europe, but i would prefer that we do not mix the sexes. we are here in an elected assembly, a political assembly. we are not in a meeting of historians. i am not in favour of using historical events to write history in a way that serves the interests of some or others. i think that these debates should be left to historians and anyone else who is interested in them - and there are certainly many people here who are interested in them - but i do not think it is entirely appropriate for this assembly to be the venue for debates and resolutions on the interpretation of history.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr pedicini, you very rightly mentioned in your speech that origin can be confusing, since sometimes it is the place of the last processing. even if the meat comes from another part of the world, if the last processing takes place in one country, the meat is said to come from the country in which this last processing took place. so for the sake of clarity, would you agree to a labelling equivalent to that of fresh beef, which states both the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the bovine?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). "small country, great food" says it all. and that quality is certainly due in part to a strict european policy on food safety, from farm to fork. quality is also achieved through the efforts of countless smes, every day again, small businesses, medium-sized companies that work in the craft sector, which are proud of the quality they deliver every day again. i am absolutely opposed to this resolution for the following four reasons: origin labelling has nothing to do with safety. it does not improve quality, traceability or prevent fraud; it is operational and practically unrealizable. the sector is rightly alarmed. it increases administrative burdens and costs and ultimately leads to a higher price for the consumer, who may seem to find origin labelling relatively important but is not willing to pay extra for it; finally, this is a form of protectionism, which is contrary to the principles of the european single market and is particularly detrimental to smaller export-oriented regions such as flanders. we do not need additional rules to restore consumer confidence, but more controls, stricter enforcement of existing agreements and tougher penalties. voluntary origin labelling for meat as an ingredient already exists and is applied cost-effectively where there is clear market demand and operational feasibility. this can be worked on. europe needs a greater sense of reality and not a policy of blind alley that achieves no goal but only creates an unnecessary additional obstacle for the many smes in the already precarious economic fabric.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food labelling system is properly and effectively monitored. as a young european consumer, i am naturally also against fraud and for greater food safety and transparency. i am surprised to find that people in this house think that a compulsory nationality declaration is by definition a guarantee of safe food. but let's be honest with each other. the country of origin of meat does not determine its safety, but the way in which the producer works. i am listening to the concerns of consumers who want more clarity about their food, but i would like to see it based on scientific facts. we know that 75 per cent of consumers are unwilling or, in some cases, unable to pay the additional costs of compulsory origin labelling. if we really want to build a more social europe, we cannot adopt a measure which makes the lives of the weakest even more expensive. and how sincere do measures to empower smes sound when we are chasing those same entrepreneurs through the back door at cost? how consistent is our agricultural policy if we are putting farmers' already small profit margins at risk by raising the cost of meat processing? finally, mr president, i would like to say this: i hear young people every day calling for a europe that recruits, a europe that is less intrusive. the question is whether this measure will meet that call. i think we all know the answer to that.
mr president, commissioner, 90% of the citizens think it is important that the origin of the meat used as an ingredient is mentioned and this has been said on several occasions. consumers must be informed. the commission uses the argument of a significant price increase in the event of an obligation to indicate the origin of meat. that is not the truth, of course, but the argument of the food industry, which does not want to change anything. in fact, for those undertakings which voluntarily mentioned the indication of origin, the additional cost was estimated at 0.67%, i.e. a few cents. the cost is the number of intermediaries, many of whom are useless. it would cost consumers much less if there were fewer intermediaries in the chain and a more decent price could be paid to producers. the commission must listen to the consumer organizations and the european parliament must listen to both ends of the chain: the producers, who suffer, and the consumers, who are in demand. commissioner, you're on the grill. we are waiting for your legislative acts. a little courage, please.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, thank you for a very deep, fine and fruitful debate. we have taken note of your views and i will pass these on to my colleague vytenis andriukaitis, who will be in charge of this particular issue. i would also like to underline that the estimated increase of 15% - 20% and up to 50% referred to the additional operating costs for the industry and not to the final product price. it is very difficult to estimate what kind of impact this would have on the final product cost. this depends firstly on the animal species concerned, secondly on the specific product concerns, on the applicable modalities, and fourthly on the specific operational situation of the operation concerned. the french study cannot be compared to the commission report because it only concerns beef, and second only in france, and third only voluntary schemes. it focuses on price increases whereas the commission report focused on increases in operating costs. the commission report also examined the willingness of the consumer to pay for information on origin, and this was found to be very weak. this aspect has not been assessed in other consumer surveys. as i said, i will take all the speeches here today to my colleague vytenis andriukaitis.
in writing. mandatory labelling of products containing meat is not a good idea. it's not helping to fight fraud. the recent horse meat scandal involved horse meat instead of beef, which is outright fraud and which would not have been changed by origin labelling. moreover, food control is already very well regulated in europe. all meat is traceable from the feed supplier to the store. we need to focus more on anti-fraud, not on additional legislation. producers who voluntarily wish to indicate the origin of the meat on their products are of course free to do so, but we are not in favour of an obligation. for meat processing undertakings, this measure would be an additional administrative burden and would entail additional costs which will inevitably be passed on to the consumer.
the commission has launched a special investigation into the practices of belgian governments in relation to individual tax agreements with multinationals. there is a serious disturbance of order, excess profit, i.e. distortion of competition within the internal market. a question that arises is: what is the position of the present belgian government? apart from the announcement that it will cooperate with the investigation, no clear position has yet been taken. another question for the commission is: is the case of 'belgium' more serious than that of other member states applying tax advantage practices? we are faced here once again with one of the disadvantages of the european concept: the more unity is created, the more natural competition between member states becomes a so-called violation of the idea of unity. in this case, therefore, we are talking about greater unity and further fiscal integration. it will never end and it will continue to swirl around and around until there is no freedom. democracy has little to do with any of this.
member of the commission. - madam president, let me underline, in order to set the context, that the european union and the international labour organisation (ilo) have a long record of good cooperation. even more, the ilo is a key partner for our external policies. the european union promotes the ratification and implementation of ilo conventions and relies on ilo supervision of labour standards, in particular core labour standards, and in the monitoring of trade association enlargement and development agreements. therefore, having a well-functioning ilo standard supervisory system is important for us since its conclusions are crucial to assessing compliance with international labour standards. and here we have a problem, due to the fact that since 2012 the supervision of labour standards cannot be carried out properly. why not? because employers’ and workers’ representatives at the ilo disagree on whether or not the right to strike is protected under ilo fundamental convention no 87, the convention concerning freedom of association and protection of the right to organise convention. secondly, employers’ and workers’ representatives also disagree on the capacity of the ilo supervisory bodies to decide on the scope of the right to strike, its limits and the conditions for its legitimate exercise. beyond this there is, as well, a risk of endangering the tripartite relationships and weakening the ilo supervisory system. as the commissioner in charge of relations with the international labour organisation, i am deeply concerned about these developments and that is why i followed the discussion at the ilo very closely. i personally met the ilo director-general, mr guy ryder, last week who informed me of the most recent developments. however, as you know, the european union is only an observer at the ilo. the commission will therefore not intervene on the substance of the discussion. these matters fall within the competence of the member states. the recognition of the right to strike in ilo convention no 87 is a delicate matter. at the last session of the ilo governing body, also thanks to european union coordination in approximating their positions, the eu member states were ready to support the option of asking the international court of justice for a clarification of the matter so that we can move forward and resolve this pending disagreement between employers’ and workers’ representatives. a tripartite meeting will take place in the ilo between 23 february and 25 february, the last week of this month, to discuss the issue. the commission is ready to support all players and provide information to feed into the discussion, notably by retrieving information on the situation regarding the right to strike in the european union. let me remind you that the right to strike is recognised as a fundamental right in the european union. the commission and the eu delegation in geneva will support eu member states and will help them to coordinate their positions and speak with one voice.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, it is clear that the right to strike is a fundamental right, a constituent of our democratic systems. although not directly within the eu's competence, there are many texts - such as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union or the european social charter - which demonstrate the union's commitment to social dialogue and to social rights. article 28 of the charter of fundamental rights guarantees employees the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements at the appropriate levels and, in the event of conflicts of interest, to take collective action to defend their interests, including strike action. the reference is clearly the international labour organisation (ilo), and more particularly its convention no. 87, and the interpretation of the committee of experts, which is recognized at world level. to deal with problems that might arise in this area, the ilo has set up a committee on freedom of association and also the committee on the application of standards, with experts. for the last 60 years, these bodies have functioned perfectly, ideally. they have always been recognized by the three components of the international labour organization and have made it possible to find compromises for the benefit of the various parties. unfortunately, since 2012, we have to note that the process is somewhat stalled and that the social partners are no longer able to reach an agreement. the european union has always had a clear position and wanted to promote social dialogue. the current blockade is therefore problematic in that it calls into question the social dialogue. i therefore hope that the commission will do its utmost to weigh in with all its might so that the ilo can break out of this impasse. if, however, this is not possible, the only way is to seek an opinion from the international court of justice in the hague. i thank you, madam commissioner, for the work you are doing and i would like to take this opportunity to ask you to take further initiatives to relaunch the social dialogue at european level.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, my apologies for being late. i understand fully the concerns of some people with regard to the right to strike. i think it is very important to bring together the interests of both employers and employees while negotiating, and also to have respect for subsidiarity. companies should have the possibility to input their employees all over europe so companies are able to compete with other companies in the single market. we would like to give them new opportunities for growth and companies should be protected against unfair competition through bad employers who escape their responsibilities. at the same time we should protect vulnerable employees. but it should not become almost impossible for honest companies to set up activities all over europe. viewing the great difference between different member states, we cannot have a one-size-fits all pattern; that does not work. we hope the commission is aware of this and will also pay attention to the different approaches necessary in a partial, targeted revision of the posted workers directive. in the framework of the agenda for better regulation, i trust the commission will take into account scientifically based risk assessments and will also take into consideration the parliaments’ expressions of concern in the past. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i fully agree with your view. i think we need to find the balance between the interests of employers and employees. i think we need to focus on the interests of business, and i think that the framework that we have to look at has to consider how companies can perform in an equalised market. this is the responsibility of national governments: to be the watchdogs on how the rules are implemented at a national level.
madam president, the strike is never for pleasure. it is a fundamental right and the ultimate weapon of the workers when their rights are seriously threatened and all other avenues have failed. we want to restrict the right to strike in bangladesh, where people work in inhumane conditions for less than a dollar a day, and we want to restrict it in the union, where workers' rights have been won at the cost of great struggles. at a time when the cynicism of some bosses, lakshmi mittal in the lead - that's the one that comes to mind - is matched only by the contempt they show for their workers by closing profitable companies for financial calculation alone, when pension funds only seek double-digit profitability, necessarily threatening workers' rights when they own the company, when widespread tax evasion orchestrated by big banks seems to be the rule, would you want to restrict workers' rights, the right to strike? that's not decent! i welcome this initiative by the international trade union confederation and thank you, madam commissioner, for your vigilance and commitment to the defence of workers' rights, including the right to strike.
madam president, commissioner, young people are absolutely our future. in this context, reducing the high level of unemployment is also an absolute priority for us. growth and jobs must therefore be more than a slogan. and the european union can help facilitate this. but, ladies and gentlemen, the labour market is and remains primarily a matter for the member states. for example, in flanders we already have the flemish youth guarantee, and with this the flemish government wants to intervene structurally by providing intensive tailor-made guidance for young people looking for work. in contrast, the youth work initiative only supports projects and subsidises temporary jobs. that's not really sustainable. we believe it is important to work structurally at the same time. finally, i would also like to call for a specific language policy tailored to young people with a migrant background and to the specific needs of young people with disabilities. these two groups must also have maximum opportunities for employment.
mr president, commissioner, 'the commission of the last chance' is how commission president juncker described the task ahead of him in parliament last october. he was referring to the immense challenge of re-engaging citizens in the european project, against the threat of the eurosceptic populists. the key is to regain trust. and trust, colleagues, i do not need to tell you that it disappears with containers and returns with wheelbarrows. the proposal is one of those wheelbarrows, because the future of the union is an abstract fact, but the immense unemployment of young people is a tragedy that is happening today and must be tackled now. now is our last chance to avoid a whole generation of young people, my generation, being lost to the labour market and society. for me, as a young member of the european parliament, the shocking figures of youth unemployment averaging 20 per cent are far from an abstract fact. behind these figures are the faces of tens of thousands of my generation. young people in spain or italy, but also in brussels, hainaut or liège. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to make available one billion euros in advance to help young people to find a job, a traineeship or a training place. the european parliament must take its responsibility and adopt the proposal as soon as possible. timing is crucial in these. as a member of the committee on social affairs and employment, i want to give my full support to this. i also call on the member states to devote these funds without reserve to concrete and effective initiatives to combat youth unemployment. but let me be clear: this additional prefinancing is, of course, only one element of the solution. it's just one wheelbarrow. we need to continue to focus on a comprehensive strategy of better skills matching, encouraging entrepreneurship among young people, creating quality internships, investing in a flexible labour market and, of course, investing in sustainable jobs. the time is not just pressing, the time is now!
mr president, i thank the commissioner for the initiative she has just taken and the solution she has proposed. we know that this is one of the difficulties of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative, and it was certainly necessary to find a solution. but as you said - and we all said - young people have been the main victims of the economic crisis since 2008, and today the most vulnerable among them are those who do not have enough education and skills: the neets, as we said earlier, that is, those who are nowhere, who are left on the side of the road. however, in the context of austerity, an increasing number of measures are being taken which are preventing the member states from carrying out structural measures for these young people, strong measures in the field of education, training and investment in job creation. i would therefore ask you just one question, commissioner. are you prepared, in the context of the european semester, to ensure that you do not take from one hand what you have given from the other, that is to say, that you do not take away the 6 billion which you are putting on the table today through the reform programmes, because these programmes are eliminating the structural measures for these young people? give us solutions in the context of the european semester to avoid the worst.
in writing. commissioner thyssen's proposal to mobilise €1 billion to pre-finance 30% (instead of 1.5%) of measures to promote youth employment under the youth employment initiative is clearly positive. 5 million young people are now unemployed in the union, which is unacceptable. of this billion, €13 million will be earmarked for youth employment in the provinces of hainaut and liège and in the brussels region. having made the fight for employment one of my priority struggles in my own commune of farciennes and in the charleroi region, i can of course only rejoice at this acceleration. the contribution of esf projects for the period 2014-2020 in the areas of training, combating early school leaving, recognition of skills, etc. should also be highlighted. but these efforts must not be partially cancelled out by the austerity measures advocated by the european union, which are de facto curbing the creation of these jobs that our young people so badly need. the need to move away from socially destructive austerity is urgently needed to allow public and private investment to revive the economy and create jobs.
at a time when 7.5 million young people in the eu are not in employment or education, strong action to tackle this unacceptable youth unemployment is essential. the european commission's communication to provide more pre-financing to make it easier for member states to implement the eyf is therefore positive. unfortunately, this is not about additional money, but about the quicker release of sums already provided for. however, i believe that additional resources need to be invested in tackling youth unemployment. not only is the number of young people out of work immense, research shows that young people who are unemployed at the start of their professional careers suffer from this throughout their careers. the 2016 revision of the mff should be used to provide additional resources. after all, without additional funds, the budget for the eyi will be exhausted in 2016, while i fear that the problem of youth unemployment will not be solved then, unfortunately. a secondary problem for the european commission is: member states with high youth unemployment are often also those which are forced to adopt a strict austerity policy. it's hard to save and invest in opportunities for youth at the same time.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam high representative, i would first like to congratulate you on this extremely clear and precise summary of your engagement in the drc. the situation in the drc is particularly worrying, even explosive, in more than one way, and this has implications for the subregion. first, it is essential that credible presidential elections be held on time. the chairman of the independent national electoral commission of the drc, mr. \* secondly, it is essential that the entire electoral process takes place in a calm atmosphere, without any violence against opponents, against civil society, against potential candidates or against journalists. freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom to demonstrate peacefully are fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution. we cannot tolerate arbitrary arrests or intimidation, and that is what we are seeing in the drc today.
madam president, madam mogherini, i fully agree with what our colleague mr louis michel said, both on the question of press freedom and on the question of human rights, and also on the electoral calendar. and i can only support the idea of an observatory, as he proposed. the european union must, however, remain coherent and has other instruments at its disposal to pursue this policy, notably the international trade instrument. you know that we are discussing today in the inta committee the fight against the so-called 'blood' minerals, that is to say those which fuel the conflicts in these regions. this measure must be binding. the commission's proposal is timid and we ask, as mr mukwege did when he came here to receive the sakharov prize and he committed us to take binding measures in this area, that parliament take its responsibilities. i therefore urge the whole parliament to take up its responsibilities and not just say when human rights problems arise that we must actually fight them, and to use the tools at its disposal to fight human rights violations.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, today a court in moscow has extended the detention of nadya savchenko, a colleague of ours, a member of the verkhovna rada, a member of the council of europe. moscow could have made a beautiful gesture, a beautiful gesture of goodwill, on the eve of the final, long-awaited negotiations in minsk by undoing her illegal detention, in violation of international conventions, her abduction and her detention and letting her go home. unfortunately, this has not happened, and we can only hope that there will be a little more understanding and a little more conciliation at the negotiating table in minsk. hope is life. it is our moral duty to hope, but we have little reason to be optimistic, for meanwhile pro-russian militias are swarming for a final military offensive. and today the airport and residential areas of kramatorsk were hit with rocket fire. yesterday, aleksey pushkov of the duma in the afet committee said that russia actually has a problem with the international rules as they have been established so far and that it wants to rewrite those rules. at the same time, he said that war is not the answer. that's obviously an open door. diplomacy must take over the weapons. and the proposals are on the table. president poroshenko has previously formulated a proposal for far-reaching autonomy for donbass, but only a ceasefire can make this proposal succeed: disarmament, demilitarisation and withdrawal of foreign russian troops from ukrainian territory.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i thank the commissioner for her presentation of the catalogue of actions that can be undertaken by the european commission. of course, we can be pleased with this fairly comprehensive catalogue, which covers the question of access to health care, the protection of girls and women, the treatment of asylum seekers and the promotion of this action at the commission level to combat mutilation. at the same time, i share my colleague's view that we do not have a definite timetable at the moment. we have the catalogue on the table, but what about the precise timetable and the objective pursued? as you said, it's difficult to collect data. so, where are we with this data collection? it is now difficult to prove that member states have effective processes in place. how do you assess the effectiveness of these processes? there is now talk of international protection for these young girls who should not risk deportation to a country where circumcision is practised. what about these evictions? we know that there are so-called safe countries, that is, countries which, in general, would not practice circumcision, even though we know that it is practiced in some of their regions. they said, "yes, but we don't send girls back to these parts". but you know when you come from a northern region and you're sent to a southern region, it's not necessarily the best thing. there is therefore a great deal of uncertainty about the action of the member states in the fight against female genital mutilation, whereas today you are giving us this catalogue of good intentions from the commission. i would like to know what the council is proposing for its implementation.
president, dear friends, dear comrades in arms, i think we have heard a lot of horror stories here tonight. i only regret that there are so few people here. as we debate here tonight, 420 young girls around the world have been circumcised, with a bone knife, with a stone, bleeding to death. and we're only here with about 30 of us to talk about it. i regret that there are so few men here. because, dear men, women have the right to enjoy sex, too. that must be the struggle. when you see the inequality that we have in this room, we know that the fight is far from over, we know that we have to convince the men of this world to fight. we in the alde group will be fighting the battle. i've seen many companions here. know that we have a long way to go before we can end these atrocities.
in writing. the european parliament will be presenting its recommendations to the commission on tuesday, during a debate in plenary, to put an end to excise duties on european soil. an estimated 120,000 women were at risk of female genital mutilation in europe in 2015. we are calling for protection for asylum seekers who have been subjected to fgm or who come from countries where their children could be subjected to fgm. we also call for a real information campaign to be set up to inform doctors to contact the authorities if they have sufficient suspicions of abuse, as is already the case when children are subject to domestic violence. almost 60 000 excisions in france and great britain, 30 000 in italy and the netherlands, over 13 000 in belgium: circumcision has also become a european reality. according to european projections, 120,000 girls are expected to join the ranks of victims in the coming months on our soil. to explain this act in the name of custom or respect for cultural differences, as is too often the case, is an aberration. this is a practice that is tantamount to violence against children and no state in europe, or anywhere else in the world, can accept.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after this little british electoral game that we will see now, i think, in every part-session of parliament in forthcoming weeks, let us come back to the informal european council. i have read the draft statement. i hope that everybody has already read it. it is very disappointing. we can do better than what is in the draft statement of the informal council. we have to use this momentum to repeat to some extent what we did after 9/11 and that was to launch a roadmap. we established the european arrest warrant and we need to do the same thing. first of all, a pnr system. we have committed to do so, to work quickly on that, but only on a legally sound system. a system that contains the necessary safeguards and i hope that we can vote for that opinion now, with a huge majority, in a few hours’ time. but i must say to the president of the council that the council has to do its work too, because the main files are not blocked in parliament. the main files on fighting terrorism are blocked in the council at present: strengthening europol – blocked in the council; strengthening eurojust – blocked in the council; the data protection directive – blocked in the council. so what i hope is that this informal meeting will unblock these so that we can go forward. secondly, there also needs to be an in-depth discussion about the real thing to do, which is sharing information in the european union, making of this intelligence service a eurintel – a european intelligence service – because all the perpetrators in the paris attacks were known. it is a question of sharing information. finally, too, strengthening our external schengen borders. it would be a huge mistake now to say that schengen is the problem. no, schengen is not the problem. as mr timmermans said, we need to strengthen control of our external borders by fully and systematically using the ses system. so that is my first appeal to you. the second appeal concerns greece. my opinion is very clear because i followed the debate here between mr pittella and mr weber a little bit. let us not rush on this. let us first give the new greek government an opportunity to come forward with a plan, with in-depth reforms, because the people of greece were right, naturally. they want a change, because neither pasok nor nea demokratia was capable of changing anything because they are the source of the patronage system and the corruption in greece. so i am open to hearing mr tsiprasʼ proposals and to seeing what he can offer as in-depth reforms, and then we can talk about their debt. not to first talk about the debt and then the reforms. that will never happen. first the reforms, then we can talk about that. but there is one thing we will never accept from the new greek government: that they want to revive the ghosts of the past by asking for reparations from another country, a member state, of the european union. that is not the foundation of the european union. the foundation of the european union is not based on revenge. we made that mistake in versailles, more than 80 to 90 years ago. mr tsipras says he has a moral obligation to do that. well, in my opinion, mr tsiprasʼ moral obligation is not to revive the ghosts of the past; his moral obligation is to work on the future of greece and the european union, just as our moral obligation too is to help greece and to work on this future of the european union. but certainly not to revive the ghosts of the past. finally, ukraine. ok, we are going to deal with that later, talk about who is doing the job now – hollande, merkel, tusk. the most important thing is that we have a lasting deal in minsk. that is the most important thing. but to have a lasting deal in minsk, i think we are obliged to have, within the european union, a united and strong position. in negotiations with mr putin, the only thing that counts is for europeans to have a united and strong position and, for me, that means three things. first of all, let us help the ukrainians with non-lethal means: satellite imaging, intelligence, cyber defence. let us help them. secondly, let us also think about new economic sanctions. finally, let us be united with the united states. do not let us know again the shame of kosovo where it was the americans who had to solve our problems on european soil because we did not have the courage, nor the means, to do so. so i hope that we have a firm position in minsk, and a united position is the only chance we have to achieve a lasting deal in that most important conflict. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – my answer is no, and i do not think that everybody here feels they form part of a european dictatorship. we form part of a european democracy. mr coburn, you were elected. maybe you have forgotten it, but you were elected. maybe they made the wrong choice in britain, that is clear, but nevertheless you were elected – because people always have that right in a democracy. secondly, what are you talking about? we are talking about terrorism today: about fighting against terrorism. we are talking about defending our values against putin. how do you do it? we can take a stand only through a united europe, mr coburn.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin by talking about security, recalling a basic principle of democracy according to which any law, any rule we adopt which in itself constitutes an obstacle to freedom must be proportionate to the aim pursued. we believe that the general surveillance of society and, in this case, the establishment of a pnr file for everyone and where the data would be stored ad vitam, or at any rate for extremely long periods of time, is not proportionate to the aim pursued. guy verhofstadt was sufficiently precise in his criticisms, i shall not repeat them here. i fully share them, including the call to the council, which is indeed a bit hypocritical when we know that it is the council which blocks most of the initiatives which would increase the real, not theoretical, security of our fellow citizens. firstly, the principle of proportionality. mr timmermans, i very much appreciated and fully share a central point in your speech. when you ask the question, "how is it that our societies have become a breeding ground for the seeds of hatred and violence sown by a few individuals? how is it that a number of our fellow citizens, people born in our country, have been shown to be sensitive to hate speech and violence?" i think you are asking the fundamental question. this is not a parachuted fifth column of some state that wants to do us harm. it's about our fellow citizens. i can hear many elements of your speech and the council's speech about our shared values, about our common life, about europe as an area of tolerance. i fully share your concern that when it comes to a community here in europe beginning to question its future as a community, it is europe that has no future. you mentioned the jewish community, and i share your concern in that regard. but what about the muslim communities, who are the victims of persistent discrimination in most european countries? not everywhere, because not all member states have the same attitude on this. discrimination in employment, in the education system, in access to culture, economic discrimination... what problems arise when these communities feel that they have no future in europe? what about the 27 million unemployed and the tens of millions of poor workers? what about the 125 million europeans who face poverty and insecurity every day? what happens when all our fellow citizens feel that this society is not acting in their favor, that this society is no longer theirs? what do i hear from the council and the commission? i hear about structural reforms. reforms aimed at cutting public expenditure - education in particular - labour income and social security. in short, reforms which, in addition, continue to make tax competition a dogma and are extremely lax - as your colleague, commissioner hill, has shown - when it comes to seriously tackling tax fraud and tax evasion. in short, a policy mix that results in a permanent increase in exclusion and inequality. madam minister, what europe needs is not a new positive narrative. our fellow citizens don't care about a good speech. what they want to see is action, a radical change of policy that puts back at the heart of the european project the objective that europe has always wanted to pursue: to be a space of shared prosperity shared by all, not just by a minority of our citizens. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – mr etheridge, i think you have a point and indeed speaking about the greeks or the germans or the muslims or the jews is probably not the right way to speak. you have a point there. however, it is a fact that statistically some groups in our society suffer from discrimination as a whole. it does not mean that they are not equal and that they are all the same, but when you see massive statistical bias against some communities, well, that is what leads me then to speak about the muslim communities. but i would agree with you that, indeed, we should not just categorise all societies as groups of people just living next to one another. mr timmermans also mentioned that in his speech. he does not want to see, and nor do i, a european society which is just a juxtaposition of individual communities. on that point at least we may agree.
the main question at the forthcoming european summit, mr president, is whether we can continue with this union, and more specifically with this monetary union, after the greek elections. the next summit will therefore be a historic debate on whether the political decision to create a currency, which was based from the outset on errors of thought and design, was not a mistake that we must undo. there's no such thing as a free lunch. greece will never regain its competitiveness within the euro system. so either it is said, not only in practice but now also officially, that the eurozone is a transfer system and then we must, as obama ordered us the day before yesterday, implement a debt cancellation or a debt restructuring variant of it, or we must correct the mistakes of the past and give greece a new life, out of prison. either obama or grexit, there aren't many other options. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the proposal is a pure codification without any change in the substance of the underlying acts. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. an agreement was signed in 1972 between the eec and iceland. at the same time, safeguard and precautionary measures were provided for in a regulation. it has been amended several times. the proposal aims, in the interests of clarity and transparency, to codify the 1972 regulation and its amendments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. we therefore support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, the advisory group having unanimously concluded that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposal is a pure codification without any change in the substance of the underlying acts. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. this is the codification, without any change in substance, of the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures.
in writing. the proposal aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001. i support this proposal in substance and form. in substance, because anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures are trade defence instruments which make it possible to combat unfair trade practices where imports are made under conditions which may give rise to action under international trade rules. the purpose of the regulation is to enable the union to bring a measure taken under the anti-dumping regulation or the anti-subsidy regulation into conformity with the recommendations and decisions contained in a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. the form, because the aforementioned regulation has been amended several times and the new regulation, by replacing the various acts incorporated in it, makes union law more readable and accessible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the action which the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. when examining the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying the regulation on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures, the group unanimously concluded that the proposal does indeed merely codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. the proposal is a pure codification without any change in the substance of the underlying acts. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. this is the codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposal aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in the event of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures. i support this proposal in substance and form. on the substance, because the proposed regulation lays down specific provisions to enable the commission to act in such a way as to prevent a combination of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard tariff measures against the same product from imposing an unjustified burden on certain exporting producers seeking to export to the union, and thereby preventing them from accessing the union market. the form, because the aforementioned regulation has been amended several times and the new regulation, by replacing the various acts incorporated in it, makes union law more readable and accessible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take in the event of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures. it should be recalled that when examining the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying the council regulation on the measures which the community may take in the event of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures, the group unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposal seeks to amend the council regulation of 6 may 2003 on the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. i wholeheartedly support this proposal because the proposed regulation allows the european commission to act when the above measures prevent a trader or producer from exporting to the european union. after having been amended several times, this latest version is also much more readable and accessible, which is only to the benefit of our european law.
in writing. the proposal is a pure codification without any change in the content of the existing legal texts. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. this is the codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports. i agree with the advisory group that the proposal is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposal is a pure codification without any change in the content of the acts concerned. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. this is the codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports. it should be recalled that, when examining the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying the council regulation establishing common rules for exports, the group unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the accession of a number of countries to the hague convention is to be welcomed. the abduction of one or more children abroad is a traumatic and dramatic event which must be dealt with as soon as possible in the interests of the children. the question is, however, what the signatures or the words of some of the acceding countries will be worth. for example, a former belgian minister points to the manifest reluctance of the moroccan authorities in cases of parental abduction. the eu is now claiming exclusive external jurisdiction in this area. this means that member states risk being finger-tapped by the eu if they were to take the initiative themselves. whereas the ultimate goal, by any means necessary, should be: find a quick solution for the kids.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of gabon to the agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by decision of the council, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of gabon to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. the european parliament voted today to approve the council's decision to accept gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in the context of cross-border parental abduction, the convention allows states parties to overcome differences and incompatibilities between their legal frameworks in order to cooperate with each other in the best interests of the child. in this connection, i would like to commend the work of the european parliament's ombudsman for children who are victims of crossborder parental abduction. the aim of this role, now held by irish mep mairead mcguinness, is to help parents find solutions that are primarily aimed at safeguarding the welfare of the child. in view of the increase in cases of crossborder parental abduction within the union, the work of mairead mcguinness is of great importance and is a testament to the european parliament's commitment to serving citizens.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution in cases of international child abduction. this is often the case when a couple separates. for the husband or wife from another country, it may be tempting to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states to obtain custody of the children. the main problem is still the differences between the legal systems of the member states. in such cases, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention therefore seeks to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i welcome the fact that libreville is joining today.
in writing. i voted for the convention in question. the purpose of the convention is to remedy such situations at the international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of gabon to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the european union and that country. the accession of gabon to the convention is welcome news; i fully agree with that, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of gabonese origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. this is a protection for children and will be extended to the whole of the union.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of andorra to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by means of the council decision, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of andorra to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem remains the differences between the legal systems of the individual member states. in this case, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he is a citizen. the hague convention therefore aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i welcome the fact that andorra is now joining.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. i voted in favour of this proposal. the convention aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of andorra to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of andorra to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of andorran origin on its soil. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the accession of a number of countries to the hague convention is to be welcomed. the abduction of one or more children abroad is a traumatic and dramatic event which must be dealt with as soon as possible in the interests of the children. the question is, however, what the signatures or the words of some of the acceding countries will be worth. for example, a former belgian minister points to the manifest reluctance of the moroccan authorities in cases of parental abduction. the eu is now claiming exclusive external jurisdiction in this area. this means that member states risk being finger-tapped by the eu if they were to take the initiative themselves. whereas the ultimate goal, by any means necessary, should be: find a quick solution for the kids.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of the seychelles to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by the council decision, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of seychelles to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. in voting for accession to the 1980 hague convention, the sensitive and painful issue of parental abduction is particularly addressed. child abductions are rightly experienced as tragedies by the victim parent. in a pluralist world, several very different rights are potentially applicable and therefore a source of legal uncertainty, in disregard of the interests of families and especially of the child. it is often difficult to keep in touch with the child abroad, either because the child is too young to talk on the phone or because the 'kidnapper' parent prevents contact. parental alienation is a common practice. psychological support is not sufficient in most cases, either before, during or after the abduction. the joy of the reunion is sometimes tinged by a sense of panic in the face of the scale of the task. as foreign minister, i had many opportunities to meet with parents of child abductees. i felt the parents' distress. i hope very much that with the accession to the hague convention, parents and children will be able to regain their share of happiness.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem is still the differences between the legal systems of the member states. in this case, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he is a citizen. the hague convention therefore aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i welcome the fact that seychelles is joining today.
in writing. i voted for the motion. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of the seychelles to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of the seychelles is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of seychelles origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions.
in writing. the accession of a number of countries to the hague convention is to be welcomed. the abduction of one or more children abroad is a traumatic and dramatic event which must be dealt with as soon as possible in the interests of the children. the question is, however, what the signatures or the words of some of the acceding countries will be worth. for example, a former belgian minister points to the manifest reluctance of the moroccan authorities in cases of parental abduction. the eu is now claiming exclusive external jurisdiction in this area. this means that member states risk being finger-tapped by the eu if they were to take the initiative themselves. whereas the ultimate goal, by any means necessary, should be: find a quick solution for the kids.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of the russian federation to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by decision of the council, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of russia to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution in cases of international child abduction. but the main problem remains the differences between the legal systems of the individual member states. in this case, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he is a citizen. the hague convention therefore aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i welcome the fact that russia is joining today.
in writing. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of the russian federation to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of the russian federation is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has close economic ties with russia. this way, children bound to this country will be protected from illegal abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of albania to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by decision of the council, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of albania to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem is still the differences between the legal systems of the member states. in this case, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he is a citizen. the hague convention therefore aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to guarantee the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i am glad that albania is now a member.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of albania to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of albania is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of albanian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of singapore to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by the council decision, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of singapore to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and that country.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem often remains the differences between the legal systems of the member states. the convention also seeks to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. today i am delighted that singapore is joining.
in writing. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of singapore to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of singapore to the convention is welcome news, especially given the close economic relations between the european union and singapore. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions.
in writing. the accession of a number of countries to the hague convention is to be welcomed. the abduction of one or more children abroad is a traumatic and dramatic event which must be dealt with as soon as possible in the interests of the children. the question is, however, what the signatures or the words of some of the acceding countries will be worth. for example, a former belgian minister points to the manifest reluctance of the moroccan authorities in cases of parental abduction. the eu is now claiming exclusive external jurisdiction in this area. this means that member states risk being finger-tapped by the eu if they were to take the initiative themselves. whereas the ultimate goal, by any means necessary, should be: find a quick solution for the kids.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of morocco to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by decision of the council, the member states accept, each for its territory, the accession of morocco to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and morocco.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on morocco's application for accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this text is of particular importance for belgium, which hosts a large community of moroccan origin. adherence to this convention is essential in a globalised world where intermarriage is on the rise. this convention clearly defines the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state where the child resides. it also allows for the immediate return of the child who has been allegedly abducted. the abduction of a child in the event of divorce or separation is a tragedy for the child and for the parent deprived of visitation or custody for many years. it is the denial of the child's right to enjoy the presence of both parents. it will now be for each member state to accept, each for its territory, the accession of morocco to the said convention.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem often remains the differences between the legal systems of the member states. in such cases, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention also seeks to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. i welcome the fact that morocco is joining today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of morocco to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of morocco to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of moroccan origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions.
in writing. during this part-session, several countries were on the agenda, asking for accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. i am glad that so many countries, including russia, gabon, andorra and the seychelles, recognise the need for accession. there is an increasing number of mixed marriages or cohabitation with children of parents of different nationalities. improving this legal framework will only benefit the children. morocco has also requested accession to the convention. this is of great importance for our country, given the size of the moroccan community in belgium.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important legal instrument for the protection of children. the aim of this convention is to prevent international child abduction by means of increased cooperation between the contracting states. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the accession of armenia to this agreement is to be welcomed. this extends this useful legal framework to other countries. this ensures that the child's best interests are paramount.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument which allows contracting parties to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. it sets up a system to expedite the return of a child who has been abducted to the country where he or she is habitually resident. by decision of the council, the member states shall accept, each for its territory, the accession of armenia to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in the cases involving the european union and armenia.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. but the main problem often remains the differences between the legal systems of the member states. the convention also seeks to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. today i voted in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own behalf. the problem is that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organizations. this problem necessitates the council decision asking the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of armenia to the convention and, therefore, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that country. the accession of armenia to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of armenian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions.
in writing. at the beginning of each parliamentary term, the european parliament shall, in accordance with the statute and its rules of procedure, examine whether the members elected fulfil the conditions required for the exercise of their mandate. the commission has also been asked to examine the application of the principle of proportionality, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i therefore welcome this decision declaring the mandate of my colleagues valid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal. we reiterate the request it has made to the authorities of the member states not only to communicate to it the names of the elected candidates but also to indicate those of the possible replacements with their ranking as a result of the vote. we also call on the competent authorities of the member states to complete without delay the examination of the objections submitted to them and to communicate the results to parliament.
in writing. road safety is one of the main priorities of european transport policy. an important part of this policy is the enforcement of penalties for road traffic offences by non-resident drivers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this in turn requires a cross-border exchange of information between national administrative authorities: the member state in which a road traffic offence is committed shall have access to the vehicle registration data of the member state in which the vehicle is registered. the commission presented a new proposal for a directive in june 2014 based on its 2011 directive, which was annulled by the ecj. i welcome the legal basis (transport) adapted in accordance with the treaties, which obliges the member states which have been excluded (the united kingdom, ireland and denmark) to implement the directive. this ensures that everyone in the eu is treated equally, regardless of where their vehicle is registered.
in writing. directive 2011/82/eu facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences entered into force on 11 november 2013. it allows the exchange of information between states parties on traffic offences committed by non-residents which endanger the safety of the driver and other road users, such as speeding, driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a motorcycle helmet, use of a mobile phone and driving on an illegal road. however, the directive was annulled by the court of justice on 6 may 2014 because it was approved on the wrong legal basis namely police cooperation (instead of transport safety). the court, however, allowed a period of one year for the adoption of a new text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all vehicles, including those with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. the amendment of the legal basis will also allow the inclusion of the united kingdom, denmark and ireland in the scope.
in writing. with today's vote, parliament confirms the agreement reached in december 2014, which allows the current cooperation between police services of eu countries to exchange information on traffic offences to continue. the cooperation will also be extended to all 28 member states (including denmark, the uk and ireland). this is an important measure to reduce the number of road deaths. the eu has set itself the goal of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020. it is important that foreign speeding or driving under the influence do not go unpunished. a good exchange of information on traffic offences between eu countries is therefore essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive because it guarantees equal treatment for non-resident and resident drivers. its objective is to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than the one in which the vehicle in question was registered. member states will have reciprocal access to vehicle registration data through an electronic data exchange network. these exchanges should make it possible to identify drivers who commit road traffic offences abroad. the offences covered are: speeding, failure to wear a seat belt, crossing a red light, driving drunk, driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a helmet, driving on a prohibited lane, unlawful use of a mobile phone or any other communication device while driving. the measures provided for in this directive are not new. this directive incorporates the provisions of a directive adopted on 25 october 2011, but the legal basis of which was contested by the commission and annulled by the court of justice in its judgment of 6 may 2014.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this proposal for a directive which aims to facilitate the exchange of information on road safety offences. a previous directive on the subject was annulled by the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) in may 2014 on the grounds that its legal basis was incorrect. the ecj had, however, maintained the effects of the directive for one year, to allow the european institutions to adopt a new text without creating a legal vacuum. the new directive therefore takes account of the remarks of the ecj, seeking its legal basis in transport safety rather than in police cooperation. the new directive also extends its territorial scope, since denmark, the united kingdom and ireland, which initially decided not to apply the first directive, have joined the new text. i therefore welcome today's vote as an important step towards more effective enforcement of road traffic rules across europe, avoiding european citizens from becoming victims of reckless drivers who do not respect the road code.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. many actors (associations of road accident victims, traffic and road safety authorities and, more generally, associations for which road safety is a priority), who all applauded the adoption of the directive, would not understand that parliament is not doing everything possible to avoid the formation of a legal vacuum. in addition, citizens, most of whom are not happy to receive a notification of a traffic offence, welcome the prospect of making this experience available to as many people as possible, regardless of the country in which the vehicle is registered. this directive could also reverse the trend at a critical moment. although the union is once again on track to meet the target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020, the number appears to be rising again, due to a number of factors: the ageing of the car fleet, drastic cuts in infrastructure maintenance expenditure as a result of the economic crisis, a lack of funding for infrastructure and innovations that could improve road safety, etc.
in writing. i wholeheartedly supported this tool to save lives on europe's roads.
in writing. in view of the economic growth opportunities for the coastal state of senegal resulting from the optimal use of available fish stocks in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries, i fully support the present eu-republic of senegal partnership agreement.
in writing. this is the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal. i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the principles of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, good governance, food security for the senegalese population and the development of the local fisheries sector.
in writing. i am very pleased that the european parliament has given its approval to the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal. senegal is an important trading partner for the european union. a new fisheries agreement is an opportunity to consolidate the sustainable fisheries policy and to support the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones. it will enable us to reinvigorate our economic and trade cooperation, promote scientific research to combat illegal fishing and continue to maintain a strategic partnership based on defending mutual interests.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because the main objective of this fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal is to update the existing framework to incorporate the priorities of the reform of the common fisheries policy and its external dimension, while establishing a strategic partnership between these two parties. this agreement should contribute to reinvigorating cooperation between the european union and senegal with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones. it will also contribute to the development of the local fisheries sector in partnership with union vessels and to the supply of quality fishery products to union markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement. given the development prospects for the senegalese economy through better exploitation of existing fish stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and the best practices in the sector, i am the rapporteur who states that both parties will find their place in the conclusion of the new agreement and the new protocol. in addition, the satellite vessel monitoring system and the cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal on the surveillance and monitoring of vessels operating in senegalese waters support the efforts of the local authorities to intensify the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
senegal is an important trading partner of the european union. a new fisheries agreement will help to ensure sustainable fisheries. we can thus give a new impetus to our economic and trade cooperation. it also gives us the opportunity to conduct scientific research on combating illegal fishing and to work together to strengthen our strategic partnership.
in writing. the european union's counter-terrorism policy is always guided by respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. i expect the same from the united states of america. i categorically reject torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment. i therefore welcome a resolution by parliament condemning in the strongest terms the cia's cruel interrogation methods and calling on the united states of america to investigate and punish the numerous human rights violations resulting from the cia's secret detention programmes.
in writing. i have of course supported this resolution which was not signed by the epp in which the signatories welcome the decision of the us senate to publish the summary of the report on the cia detention and interrogation programme. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in the middle east. the resolution calls on the united states to prosecute those responsible for human rights violations in this context and calls on member states to investigate allegations that there were secret prisons on their territory where people were detained under the cia programme. the commission also called on the member states to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region.
in writing. the revelations by the us senate concerning the use of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment by the cia against detainees after the terrorist attacks of 11 september, and the alleged complicity of certain eu member states, have had a wide public response. the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners had already been investigated by a temporary committee of the european parliament set up in 2006. the 'extraordinary transfer' programme implemented involved, in the majority of cases, secret detention and torture (simulations of drowning, mock executions, prolonged sleep deprivation and painful poses). like parliament in its final report adopted on 14 february 2007, i can only deplore the passivity or blindness of some member states to the illegal operations of the cia on their territory. it is time for the european states concerned to begin investigating these facts and, if they are established, to take the appropriate sanctions.
in writing. i condemn in the strongest terms the unspeakable practices of the cia in violation of national and international law, as revealed in the us senate report. nothing, not even the fight against barbarism, can justify such practices. at the same time, we must commend the us senate for having the courage to shed light on the very dark passages of its modern history. this is a real example of a system of democratic counter-power. however, as members of the european parliament, we must focus primarily on the passive and consensual acts of some of our member states. by turning a blind eye, they have broken their most profound commitment: that of respect for the rule of law. i welcome the request for an inquiry from the libe committee. however, this democratic control could be extended to a wider committee also including national parliamentarians, judges and academics. in the face of such grave acts, we must find an ambitious and adequate formula; we must have a historical counterweight strong enough to prevent the same mistakes from being made again.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. we have already condemned on several occasions the cia's secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme, which have resulted in multiple human rights violations, including the use of torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment, abductions, secret detention, detention without trial and violations of the principle of non-refoulement. these are totally unacceptable and go against my values, let us say our european values!
in writing. the cia's practices are contrary to the letter and spirit of international law. the european parliament has been condemning these practices for some time. the criminal or terrorist activity the suspects were alleged to have committed is no excuse for the government to torture. the united states senate has had the courage to bring this dark page to light and to sharpen it. as members of the european parliament we should focus on the (active or) passive cooperation of some european governments. i hope that the libe committee in the european parliament will do its job and show the same courage as the us senate.
in writing. as the recent attacks in paris and the glaring foiling of attacks in belgium have shown, terrorism knows no borders. only a pan-european response can deal with the problem. the european parliament's resolution to implement a concrete package of counter-terrorism measures at european level at short notice is highly commendable. it aims to take both preventive measures (combating radicalisation) and to improve existing counter-terrorism tools such as an eu-wide passenger name record (pnr) .
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution because it develops a comprehensive approach to the fight against terrorism. it condemns in advance and categorically all acts of terrorism and underlines the serious damage to our democratic values and freedoms. it also stresses the need to tackle the roots of terrorism and radicalisation, in particular in terms of policies promoting social inclusion. it also calls for greater cooperation within the union, particularly in the field of intelligence, so that the effectiveness of existing tools (sis, apis, europol, eurojust, cepol, etc.) can be enhanced. in general, it stresses the importance of the exchange of information between the police and judicial authorities of the union, in compliance, of course, with european and national law. it also stressed the need to combat effectively the trafficking of arms and to apply adequately the anti-money laundering directives in order to eliminate a major source of funding for terrorist networks. it also stressed the need to develop an appropriate external policy to strengthen links with partners useful in the fight against terrorism, to put an end to the financing of terrorism and to prevent radicalisation.
in writing. it is essential that we quickly agree on a european pnr system. it is indeed an effective tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime; we need it to increase the security of european citizens, of all of us. but of course we must also take action in other ways. address the growing radicalisation, in particular by making a much greater effort to prevent and dialogue. in many cities, including my own country, the last few years have seen a sharp reduction in the extremely valuable street corner projects. we shouldn't have done that. it is clear that in many cases we will only be able to restore trust and dialogue by this means and that we will have to do much more.
in writing. the terrorist attacks committed on the territory of the union over the last ten years have highlighted a number of shortcomings and weaknesses that need to be addressed in order to improve the prevention of future terrorist attacks. the european union must now, more than ever, ensure the security of all, while guaranteeing the rights and freedoms that are the founding principles of the european project. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on measures to combat terrorism, which sets out a series of actions to improve the union's effectiveness in this area, while respecting this balance. i also supported the adoption of an amendment calling for every effort to be made to finalise the eu pnr directive by the end of the year. however, i remain convinced that other measures must also be implemented in the short term: the strengthening of controls at the external schengen borders, including for citizens of the union, increased resources allocated to europol to combat terrorism and in particular against islamist propaganda on the internet, and the mandatory exchange of information on jihadists between member states.
in writing. after intensive negotiations, the european parliament adopted a resolution listing priority areas for action in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation in europe. among the major measures proposed is the need to break the national information divide that already exists. refusing to share information limits our chances of actively fighting terrorists. the member states must now take a further step by giving the european union the means to combat this scourge which goes beyond our borders, our continent. we must not give in to fear. data collection is essential as long as it is necessary and within the limits of respect for privacy. i shall therefore be firmly opposed to the creation of a european big brother. however, we must not be naive, information is the raw material in the fight against terrorism. we must therefore establish a framework which ensures this balance. i welcome the european parliament's decision to tackle the pnr data issue while reaffirming its commitment to data protection.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. these include the adoption of a 'european pnr' (a centralised database containing detailed files on all passengers passing through a european airport, kept for five years) linked to progress on the reform of personal data protection and privacy. the resolution also stresses the need to improve, enhance and accelerate the sharing of law enforcement information at the global level and calls for faster and more effective sharing of relevant data and information. it also recalls the need again and again to invest in programmes that address the root causes of radicalisation, including educational programmes, the promotion of integration, social inclusion, dialogue, participation, equality and tolerance.
in writing. - the greens/efa group today voted against the joint motion for a resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the four bigger political groups provides a carte blanche for eu governments to scale-back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combating precisely such democratic freedoms
in writing. we welcome the following points in particular: - the resolution stresses the essential balance between security and respect for fundamental freedoms and rights; - it clearly highlights the need to fully implement the existing arrangements, but also to analyse their strengths and weaknesses. the topics covered included the need to optimise the use of the schengen information system, the fight against terrorist propaganda, radical networks and recruitment on the internet, the strengthening of information exchanges and the use of existing databases, the use of measures relating to terrorist financing, the use and evaluation of measures relating to arms trafficking, the essential role played by europol and eurojust, which needs to be strengthened; - it did not overlook the issue of the european pnr: the european parliament committed itself to working towards the finalisation of the european pnr directive by the end of 2015, and therefore the european commission urged to draw the consequences of the court of justice's judgment on the data protection directive as soon as possible. finally, as we have requested, the resolution urges the council to unblock the discussions on the data protection package.
in writing. for me, the balance between privacy and security is very important. the link between the protection of personal data and the recording of passenger data on aircraft shows a healthy balance. the european union must strictly maintain this balance.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf) was established in 2005 at the initiative of the united nations to organise multi-stakeholder meetings for democratic and transparent political dialogue. these meetings discuss a wide range of issues related to internet governance, such as net neutrality, data security and improving global internet access. as the igf's mandate expires at the end of 2015, the european parliament calls on the un general assembly to extend its mandate and provide it with more resources. i very much welcome this resolution because we need a sustainable and future-oriented internet policy.
in writing. the role of the internet governance forum is to discuss issues related to internet governance and to make recommendations to the international community. the igf is making an effective contribution (in cooperation with ms and the commission) to the development of a coherent and comprehensive eu strategy and is helping to build a positive and concrete framework for shaping the future of the internet. the current mandate of the igf is coming to an end. the un general assembly will discuss a possible renewal in 2015. i support the renewal of this mandate. the internet is the cornerstone of the digital single market. it promotes innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. on the economic side, it accounts for almost 11% of union growth and its contribution to gdp is expected to reach 5,7% in 2016. this is therefore a key issue for europe. europe also has a lot of internet-related issues to deal with: regulatory aspects of electronic communications, data security, respect for privacy, net neutrality, protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights online, the fight against radicalism, etc.
in writing. the internet has undoubtedly emerged in recent years as an essential element of political, social and economic life worldwide. as a means of communication, a driver of economic recovery and competitiveness, and a guarantor of non-discriminatory access to knowledge, the internet has a considerable influence on society as a whole. i welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum. by voting to strengthen the capacity of this forum, we are giving ourselves the means to fight against the misuse of the internet and to anticipate possible deviations. a stable mandate for the forum will enable it to gather the necessary expertise and to act effectively in pursuit of its objectives. it is a step forward in addressing the important challenges posed by the development of the internet, such as the online protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights, the protection of copyright, the enhancement of the safety of children's internet exploration, the fight against cybercrime, the confidentiality of personal data, etc.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forum (igf) is to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society in terms of organising forums for political, transparent and multilateral dialogue. the resolution i voted on today on the igf just made it clear that it is the eu's responsibility to support the holding of this forum and to increase the impact of these exchanges in political debates, as this makes it possible to build a positive and concrete framework for shaping, based on a multi-stakeholder strategy, the future of the internet. and this is happening at a time when some are trying to reduce the global connectivity of their citizens through censorship and other restrictions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. although the igf does not adopt formal conclusions, it is incumbent on the european union to support the holding of this forum and to increase the influence that these exchanges can have on policy debates, as this allows to build a positive and concrete framework for shaping, based on a multi-stakeholder strategy, the future of the internet. it is important that the member states and the relevant union institutions ensure that the igf remains a key priority for them and that they continue to support the igf and its secretariat, and contribute to the development of an effective and independent organisation capable of fulfilling its mandate and of accompanying the constant evolution of the internet governance model.
in writing. the use of the internet is both de-protective and democratizing, and at the same time threatening. the internet provides information and communication, which unfortunately can also be misused. by adopting this resolution to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum and to increase its capacity, we ensure that it can bring in the necessary expertise and act appropriately. it should, inter alia, protect the confidentiality of personal data and address the fight against cybercrime.
in writing. as a result of the bse crisis, country of origin information has been mandatory for fresh beef and beef products since january 2002. from april 2015, the indication of origin will also be mandatory for fresh, chilled or frozen unprocessed meat of pigs, sheep, goats and poultry as provided for in regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on food information to consumers. in the wake of recent food scandals, such as the horse meat scandal, the eu is being called upon to restore consumer confidence. providing information on the origin of meat used as an ingredient contributes to better traceability of the food chain and to greater care by food business operators in the selection of their suppliers. the resolution urges the commission to submit a legislative proposal to this effect, requiring the indication of the origin of meat in processed food, in order to increase transparency throughout the food supply chain and to better inform eu consumers. i can only support this view because i believe that consumers of processed food should be able to identify where the meat in the food comes from.
in writing. the indication of the origin of unprocessed beef and beef products has been compulsory since 1 january 2002, following the bse crisis. from april 2015, the indication of the country of origin will also become mandatory for unprocessed pigmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat. the resolution calls on the committee to draw up legislative proposals to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed products. i supported this resolution which aims to increase transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers.
in writing. the n-va delegation voted against the resolution on the labelling of the origin of meat in processed food. we are in favour of continuing the voluntary labelling of origin, which is already being applied in a cost-effective way. a mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed food is unfavourable for a number of reasons. origin labelling indicates the origin but does not improve quality, traceability or prevent fraud. it is also a form of protectionism, which is contrary to the principles of the single european market and is particularly disadvantageous for smaller export-oriented regions such as flanders. the operational and practical feasibility is an obstacle, as are additional administrative costs and burdens which ultimately lead to a higher price for the consumer (who may consider origin labelling to be relatively important but is not willing to pay extra for it). the n-va regrets the lack of realism in the adopted text and believes that a solution to the breach of consumer confidence will not come from additional rules, but from more controls, strict enforcement of existing agreements and heavier sanctions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to come forward with a balanced proposal to make the indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods compulsory, on the basis of an impact study and taking into account costs and administrative burdens. the resolution aims to extend the existing system for fresh beef and veal to all fresh meat from april 2015. that's a good measure. labelling increases transparency throughout the food chain. consumers are demanding such transparency. in december 2013, the european commission submitted a report on the possible consequences of mandatory labelling of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat used as an ingredient. she estimated the cost of such labelling to be 15 to 50% more expensive! it did not propose any legislation but suggested, as a possible alternative, eu/non-eu labelling, which was advertised as being cheaper. this resolution follows up on the contents of that report and the figures provided. these figures seem questionable (according to the french ministry of agriculture and ufc que choisir). the resolution therefore calls on the commission to review them.
in writing. i support the european parliament resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods. parliament called on the commission to submit a proposal to make such an indication compulsory. while consumer confidence has been undermined by the scandals of recent years, the aim is to meet the legitimate expectations of consumers who want to know the origin of the meat they buy. it also means treating fresh meat and processed meat equally. in addition to better information for consumers, this system should also meet the requirements of transparency and traceability throughout the food chain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal to make the indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods compulsory. i believe that the country of origin of meat used as an ingredient in prepared dishes should be indicated on the labelling for several reasons. because such a label would help to ensure better traceability and transparency throughout the food supply chain and would encourage the agri-food industry to be more scrupulous in their choices. because stricter rules on traceability will also enable the authorities to investigate food fraud more effectively (everyone remembers the horse meat lasagna scandal). and finally, because legislation to make the indication of origin for meat in processed products compulsory will also make it possible to better inform european consumers, who are more than 90% of those who consider this new indication important. the european commission will also have to propose labelling, taking care not to create too much complexity for businesses and to ensure that labels are clearly legible for consumers.
the european parliament, on the initiative of the greens, wants the origin of meat to be indicated on the labelling of foodstuffs containing meat. despite strong opposition from the christian democrats and the food industry itself, a majority of the european parliament supports this proposal. a consumer has the right to know where the meat in his pea soup or frozen lasagna comes from. this gives consumers an idea of the length of the food chain from the plate to the plate and allows them to make their choices accordingly. this will encourage producers to choose local production. opponents of labeling meat in processed products as ready meals say that these rules will increase the price of products by more than 10 percent. i suspect these statistics are a bit of a stretch. it is absurd that under the guise of too much bureaucracy a producer does not need to know where his meat comes from. especially after last year's horse meat scandal, it would be good for the food industry to be more open about their production processes. the european parliament is now forwarding the proposal to the european commission. the commission must ultimately decide whether to take action and come forward with legislative proposals.
in writing. is the lack of information about the origin of the meats on your plate such as ravioli, hash, dumplings, ham pizzas or the mysterious frica (n) delles over? this is the demand of the european parliament, which was voted on by a majority this afternoon. the commission refuses to mention the origin of these meats, claiming that this would cause additional costs for consumers, when the truth is quite different, only 0.67% for the companies that carry out this labelling. we are demanding legislation on this matter and controls to avoid a further breakdown in consumer confidence, as happened after the horse lasagna crisis. 90% of citizens think it is important that the origin of meat is mentioned as a food ingredient. it is to be expected that the commission's officials are among the remaining 10%. the commission, acting as the spokesman for the companies, refuses to mention the origin of the meat because of the additional cost to the citizen. the commission's argument therefore seems to be more dictated by the agri-food sector than by the interests of citizens' rights! the labelling of origin is compulsory for fresh meat, but it is also the case for prepared dishes.
in writing. the single european market is threatened by the call for mandatory country-based origin labelling. europe sets the standards for food safety, quality and sustainable production. on the other hand, greater awareness through the mandatory mention of 'made in the eu' is desirable. i would have liked, however, to see the resolution remove the administrative and financial burden of mandatory labelling. the resolution as adopted will leave it to the commission to avoid our agricultural industry being subjected to further administrative burdens by compulsory labelling, taking into account the safety of the food chain.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) is made up of representatives of 77 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and 77 members of the european parliament (eu). it is the 'parliament' of the cotonou agreement concluded between these acp states and the member states of the european union. it outlines the intergovernmental relationship between the contracting parties in the fields of development aid, trade, investment and human rights. the ppv meets alternately in an acp state and a european country to promote the north-south relationship. as the only interparliamentary assembly set up under an international agreement, i congratulate the ppv on the work it has done. i also welcome the fact that it has become an important forum for open and honest debate on issues of vital importance to development cooperation.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly plays an important role as the only multilateral interparliamentary assembly established under the cotonou agreements. this allows for an open dialogue with the acp countries on, inter alia, the implementation of development cooperation under the edf and the application of the epas. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the resolution also calls on the pa to strengthen the dialogue on human rights and calls for the replacement of the cotonou agreement to include an explicit reference to non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. it also stressed that the post-cotonou discussions should be an opportunity to analyse in depth the failures and successes of the current agreement in terms of sustainable socioeconomic development in the acp countries. in this respect, it insists that any epa should be included in the development objectives in order to reduce poverty and guarantee fundamental human rights.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a unique body, firmly rooted in relations based on mutual respect and understanding. it is a forum for discussing all kinds of issues, from current issues such as gay rights, violence against women, governance issues, traceability of natural resources, etc. in view of all these debates, it can be said that this assembly has gained a good experience and can boast of good results. the acp-eu jpa normally meets in plenary session twice a year: in europe, in the country holding the eu presidency, and in an acp country. we are seeing that european countries are finding it increasingly difficult to honour this commitment. i take this opportunity to call on the authorities concerned in the member states to assume their responsibilities by agreeing to hold these meetings. this year we will have to debate the future of this unique institutional structure. we must define the continuation of what is in history an unprecedented model of political cooperation. political dialogue is the basis of our relations.
in writing. in my view, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (one of the joint institutions of the cotonou agreement) is a forum for open and democratic dialogue between meps and acp parliamentarians on the implementation of the agreement, in particular the monitoring of development cooperation under the european development fund (edf) and the conclusion and application of economic partnership agreements. i am therefore pleased that the report emphasizes the crucial role of national parliaments, local authorities and non-state actors in the acp countries in the preparation and monitoring of national and regional strategy papers and in the implementation of the edf. i would add that i voted in favour of the amendment requesting that the european parliament be given the political responsibility to take account of the opinion of the acp parliaments on the outcome of the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements before giving its assent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished colleague, mr charles goerens. the quality of its work has helped the assembly to establish itself as a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation. it proactively continued to monitor political, economic and social developments in the acp countries with a view to promoting the development goals and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance, which are integral to sustainable development. acp-eu cooperation is supported by a legally binding system and the existence of common institutions. it is important that the app continues to monitor developments very closely to ensure that its voice is heard when considering the different options and alternatives to be put in place after the expiry of the cotonou agreement in 2020. whatever the outcome of the acp-eu post-2020 negotiations, the parliamentary dimension of the acp-eu partnership agreement must not be diluted, but must continue to play a major role after 2020.
the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a unique forum where europe and the atlantic, caribbean and pacific countries speak and listen to each other on an equal footing. the european parliament is the body which discusses all the major and topical issues. the general assembly meets twice a year, once in an acp country and once in the country holding the eu presidency. as the resolution shows, we must look to the future of this institution this year. i think we should preserve this unique form of debate.
president, better communication between the existing eu agencies is important to establish information exchange and cooperation. in this context, europol's operational capacity should be better utilised. the commission has also proposed that the role of frontex be increased. not only in the context of protecting europe's external borders, but also in the safe interception of migrants from north africa. this is crucial for our internal security, but also, of course, for the safety of refugees and the management of the influx of refugees. in addition, easo also supports member states that are under severe pressure from the mass influx of refugees and helps them to meet their european and international obligations. but the asylum treatment by greece leaves so much to be desired that a return under the dublin rules is met with human rights concerns. as a result, some eu countries have not sent anyone back to greece for four years. so it's very clear that the system is not working. and my question is: what are we gonna do? i would like a specific answer from the commission. how do we solve this problem?
the frontex issue is a clear illustration of the fact that the whole concept of the european union is a boulevard of broken dreams. the member states have ceded their national borders, the so-called internal borders, to the european union. in return, the european union would use frontex to guard the external borders. the result is now known. the internal borders disappeared, but the external borders did not come into being. in this way, the beautiful and idyllic-sounding intentions and principles of free movement of persons and goods and open borders for everything and everyone have become an immigration magnet, a social drama for which the poor of our own people in the districts are paying the price in terms of liveability and safety. and above all, these fine intentions have become a failure and a breach of the promises and commitments made between the member states and the european union. i'm not going to be a part of this. we will continue to fight within the european union for a revision of the whole system, including schengen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it sits on the un human rights council until 2016 and boasts of making a major contribution to the global fight against terrorism. saudi arabia can gain by explicitly abandoning the practices of the islamic state. many muslims are not at all comfortable with the extremist elements that are gaining more and more attention in the media. a first step towards renewal in the 'land of the two holy mosques' could give a new dynamic to the debate on islam. because today, beneath the surface of oil dollars, there is still a cruel system. it ranges from corporal punishment for the slightest offense, such as being open to discussion with other religions, to public beheading of people. in this game, raïf badawi is the innocent victim of a country that is internationally modern, but internally in a dark, medieval transition. i hope that europe can be united and make it clear to saudi arabia that it cannot be part of the un human rights council without also being involved at home. raïf badawi doesn't belong in prison, he belongs on a panel!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is tragic and unbearable about the cruel treatment of mr badawi is that this is not an isolated case or a blunder that could be attributed to overzealous law enforcement agencies. what is tragic and unbearable is that it is a system. and what is worse, this system is a legal system, designed, built and implemented by the institutions of a country that we consider an ally. what is tragic and unbearable about the punishment inflicted on mr badawi is not only the brutality of the blows inflicted on him, but that these blows are being inflicted on him for apostasy, that is to say for insulting islam, even though he was simply using the internet to fuel a democratic debate. what is tragic and unbearable about the brutality of the punishment inflicted on mr badawi is that there is, in fact, no difference in nature between certain savage practices of the islamic state group, which we are bombing, and certain savage but legal practices of saudi arabia, which we are tolerating. that is why i support this resolution and i ask all members to support it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on saudi arabia is a good opportunity to ask real questions. first of all, do we find it normal that this country is almost never mentioned in our urgent dossiers, when it should have been mentioned on many occasions? first, there is the journalist blogger raif badawi, who is calling our attention today, sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes for simply doing his journalistic work. secondly, i would like to emphasize the words of imf president lagarde, who mourns the death of the king, saying, and i quote, 'the death of a man who did a lot for women'. it's not a joke. we can be sure that saudi women in general will appreciate it, as will the burmese woman beheaded in the middle of the street in front of officers who remained almost passive, or the two women who have been in prison for several years for daring to drive a car. you heard me, drive a car! for raif badawi, but also for all those men and women who have no other wrong but to demand their rights, we must denounce these injustices. you can't be charlie during an interview or a media moment, and then go for "i'm a petrodollar", in defiance of free speech or human rights, in absolute cynicism.
mr president, on behalf of the 191 signatories to the motion for a resolution on a committee of inquiry into the tax rulings, i would like to draw the house's attention to a point of order. the president of this assembly has decided on his own authority not to put to the vote the proposal made by the 191 signatories of this assembly, whereas in our view the rules of procedure require the conference of presidents to submit to the vote of this assembly, with a positive or negative recommendation the choice is his the original proposal. i note that this has not been done and we consider that this is an infringement of european law, which we reserve the right to pursue before the european court of justice.
in writing. given the current events (luxleaks, suisseleaks and the news about belgian rulings), it seems fair to tackle tax evasion and unfair tax advantages for multinationals. exchange of information can be useful. if the special committee wishes to limit itself to any exchange of information and making recommendations, this can be of added value. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i look forward to the conclusions of the special committee which has a clear mandate for six months. however, as is characteristic of the ever-expanding powers of the european union, there is a chance that people will want to get much more leverage, that they will want to bring forward further harmonisation of european tax systems and that they will want to equalise any differences between member states in tax rates or their own national policies to attract businesses. that has little or nothing to do with the smooth functioning of the internal market, but anything with a new eu competence is a path i do not want to take. i therefore vote in favour of the establishment of the special committee with the reservations i have expressed.
in writing. following a series of investigations by the european commission into alleged tax fraud in favour of multinational corporations in luxembourg, ireland, belgium and the netherlands, parliament voted by a large majority to set up a special committee. the committee will examine practices in the area of binding tax information and will examine rules determining the transparency of tax decision-making practices in eu countries. i welcome the establishment of this special committee because tax justice and tax transparency are essential. the committee will focus on tax regimes in all member states and press for an end to unfair tax practices and tax avoidance. this is a fundamental question of justice.
in writing. following the revelations of luxleaks and then swissleaks, it was essential that the european parliament react. europeans rightly expect fairer taxation. this special committee on tax returns will make it possible to establish full transparency in this area. as a member of my group, i will be fully committed to bringing the greatest possible clarity to the current practice. i hope that, thanks to this committee and the work undertaken by the european parliament, we will be able to achieve tax harmonization at european level for corporate taxation, for example by defining a common tax base and a minimum rate to be defined, ensuring that it is not a floor rate. in addition, recent events show that it is high time to combat money laundering, which is one of the sources of funding for terrorism worldwide. my priorities in this area are the fight against tax fraud and evasion and the introduction of a capital tax.
in writing. following the luxleaks case, the european parliament today voted in favour of setting up a special parliamentary committee to examine tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect in the eu member states and to make recommendations for the future. this special committee will be composed of 45 members and will be set up for an initial period of six months. i have always considered that parliament had a duty to take up this question and that the committee had to provide the best answers, but it is also imperative that this political will be shared by the states, because any progress on taxation is conditional on their unanimous approval. there are still many steps to be taken to achieve fair and equitable taxation in the union. investigating possible violations is part of the process and that is why i wanted to support it, but more importantly, to get a global view of these tax arrangements, so as to be able to draw up laws that prevent them and thus preserve the public finances of the whole european union. this is a key issue. it is a question of europe's credibility and responsibility.
in writing. hugues bayet was appointed as a fictitious rapporteur on the first report. the commission will be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states. the socialists didn't wait for luxleaks to blow up to demand fairer taxation. it is high time to put in place tools to combat tax evasion, otherwise luxleaks will quickly become belgoleaks, frenchleaks and finally euleaks.
in writing. the crisis in iraq and syria, exacerbated by the activities of is, is leading to a dramatic deterioration of the humanitarian and human rights situation in these areas. in this context, i welcome this parliament's resolution which supports a worldwide effort against isil/da'esh and other extremist terrorists in the middle east and north africa. however, the protection of civilians should be a central priority.
in writing. the chaotic situation in syria and iraq requires a collective and rapid response by the international community. the protection of civilians in general and children, women and minorities in particular, the millions of refugees living in unsustainable conditions throughout the region, respect for international humanitarian law and human rights, the cessation of massacres in general and the establishment, as soon as possible, of a climate conducive to peace are all colossal challenges which the european union, the un and the international community must address together. failure to respond to this situation or mismanagement of our response could have dramatic consequences on the spot. the union and the member states must live up to their values and provide a strong, unanimous and effective response.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the violence perpetrated by the 'islamic state' group in iraq and syria and calls for more support from the commission and the international community to help the victims. this humanitarian crisis is one of the most serious in contemporary history. nearly 20 million people in the region are in need of urgent assistance. i also had the opportunity to contribute to the drafting of this text and to add some considerations concerning the atrocities committed against children, which were mentioned in a recent report by the un committee on the rights of the child. these children are conscripted and forced to become child soldiers. they are also used as informants, human shields and even as suicide bombers. this is particularly the case for mentally handicapped children. children belonging to the christian and yazidi minorities are systematically murdered or sold in sex slavery in markets with price tags. the 18 experts of the committee on the rights of the child also report cases of mass executions of boys, but also of children beheaded, crucified or buried alive.
in writing. due to the violence in syria, more than 12.2 million syrians are now desperately in need of help. in iraq, more than 5.2 million citizens are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance and more than 2.1 million people have been internally displaced. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the international community to honour its commitments by increasing humanitarian aid and assistance to the millions of people affected by the crisis in iraq and syria. the resolution also strongly condemns the systematic, brutal and widespread violations of human rights and the abuses committed by the regime of bashar al-assad, the terrorists of the islamic state group and other jihadist groups in iraq and syria, including the massacre of hostages. the european union must have a comprehensive regional strategy to block the islamic state group, to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis and to end the conflict in both syria and iraq. the strategy should include support for countries hosting refugees, and consultation with regional partners to combat terrorist financing, arms deliveries and the influx of foreign fighters, and to combat extremist violence.
in writing. we discussed the humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq, aggravated by the violence of the islamic state group, with commissioner stylianides. i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq. more than 7.6 million syrians have been internally displaced and 3.8 million have fled to neighbouring countries. in iraq, more than 2.1 million people were displaced in 2014 and, according to the un high commissioner for refugees, some 330,000 refugees will have to spend the winter in poor-quality shelters. the kurdistan region of iraq hosts more than 900 000 displaced people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the atrocities committed by is in iraq and syria, but above all because it calls on the european commission and the international community to help the victims. a major liberal point of concern in this resolution is the fate of child soldiers.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me start by saying how welcome it is for our political group to have you here in parliament today presenting the energy union plan. it is not only a plan but a strategy. i think it is the very first time that we have had that sort of strategy. we could not have imagined having it in a earlier commission. i think it is very important. the plan is not only yours, commissioner, but comes from different commissioners. it is a holistic approach which makes it extremely important. it is now the place and time to put the patchwork of 28 different member states and different energy policies behind us, like in 1951 when we had the european coal and steel community which was the basis of the european union, of economic progress and peace. today i very much hope that the european solar and wind community will transform our economy into a sustainable and carbon-free economy. our group is very pleased with the emphasis you put on energy efficiency. this is very important for us. i was very pleased to see that you said not only that energy efficiency is important, but that you regard it as a source of energy. that is really crucial. in that sense, megawatts can compete with megawatts – crucial in our vision for the future. having said that, of course the implementation will be very important. the implementation of this visionary framework needs to be implemented in the new direction we are taking as europe. as a political group, we have always said that we need another balance when we look to our economy. we need to invest, and there will be no energy union if we are not able to invest in renewable energy efficiency in our infrastructure. there we have the connection with the juncker plan and we are currently discussing this in parliament. you can be assured that our group will put your – and our – priorities on the energy union at the centre of the discussion on the juncker plan. in that way we will make sure that the things we do will create, not just one tree, but several trees. we will create jobs and we will make sure that we have a good and different infrastructure. we will make sure that there is a sustainable future and also secure our energy supply for our economy and for all our citizens. let us therefore take the energy union and the juncker plan, not to invest in, or as a means to restart, the old economy, but as a means to start a new economy.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, first i would really like to thank you for today’s debate, but especially i would like to thank you for the previous consultations we had in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), and in many of the bilaterals where you give us very valuable advice on how the energy union should be constructed. therefore, having listened to your comments, i can say that we very much have overlapping priorities when it comes to the energy union. i think that there was overwhelming support for our key priorities like guaranteeing the security of supply, working much more on the completion of the internal energy market, putting the energy-efficiency-first principle into real use, continuing our decarbonisation efforts and being very focused in what we do in research and innovation in the field of energy. some of you have been saying that, regarding the dimension of the security of supplies, we could do more. of course we could, but i think, as you have read in our strategy, that we are taking the energy security issue to a higher level. probably never before have you heard such ambitious language as regards the ex ante check of the compatibility of the intergovernmental agreements with the european acquis. never before has the commission dared to push for much more transparency when it comes to long-term gas contracts, and never before have we been so clear that we need to diversify not only the routes but also the sources of our energy. we have been trying to present it in the new holistic way, because we have linked it very much with other dimensions and we are very clear in stating that we do not have to import the energy we save. it means we are increasing our energy security. mr eickhout and mr turmes have been very strong in underlining the importance of the efficiency-first principle, and i agree with them. i think that if you read our strategy in greater detail, you will see that we are not only doing lip service to this principle, we are making this principle operational. we are clearly describing how we are going to use it when we are discussing energy infrastructure projects and how we are going to link it with the funding for infrastructure projects in the future, and i think that we will see that in real life, this principle will be applied, and the commission will be the first to support its full implementation. i would say 90% of the honourable members have been referring to the importance of infrastructure and infrastructure development, and i think they are right. we cannot have an internal energy market without proper infrastructure, without proper interconnections. i think that, also in the commission, we agreed that we need to improve the governance of how we manage, how we follow up on our infrastructure projects, how we can make greater coherence in funding from different sources. we have projects of common interest, we have structural funds in the new member states, we have the connecting europe facility, and now, thanks to our president, we have the new juncker investment plan, which of course would be key for this big investment, which must be channelled to cross-border infrastructure. we will ensure that we have a much better governance system making sure that the infrastructure interconnections are built on time, with the support of the citizens and the member states, and they will make the free flow of energies in the european union a reality. i very much appreciate all of you who highlighted the issue of the energy poverty of vulnerable citizens in europe, and again i think that for the first time we have devoted such an important part of the energy union strategy to this problem. we recognise that we have a problem with energy poverty, and we are also proposing how this should be tackled. we should increase the competition on the internal energy market, because it should drive the prices down. at the same time we have to have a special instrument which would help, via social means, the most vulnerable citizens to take care of the cost, because in the europe of the 21st century we should not have such a high percentage of citizens who cannot afford to pay their energy bills. i also would like to reassure mr liese and other honourable members of this parliament on governance. the commission will launch dynamic and robust governance for the energy union, for our climate action and, as i said, also for our infrastructural build-up, and of course parliament will be a key partner in this effort. if you study carefully our roadmap, our action plan and all the legislative proposals which are proposed there, it is very clear that they have to adopt it through the ordinary legislative procedure, where parliament is, of course, a key partner as co-legislator. if you will allow me to react also to some questions related to research and innovation. mr duncan was, apparently, reading one of the previous versions of the energy union communication, because in the final text i would say that this policy is very much focused: we are focusing on four very concrete areas of research and innovation. we want to remain the world leader in the next generation of renewable technologies, including storage – how to store the energy which is produced by the renewable sources. we want to remain leaders in this market. we want to help our cities to become smart, and we also want to focus our research on how to make our transport much more sustainable. if you will allow me, i should like to conclude with some information on what the new agency for the coordination of energy regulators (acer) should do. i think that when we are talking about completion of the internal energy market and about much more cross-border connection, it is very clear that this dimension of cross-border cooperation would be much more important than before. i think that it is very clear that we need to have the possibility to adopt many more decisions at european level. we want to do it within the framework of the current treaties; we believe that with increased powers for acer and closer cooperation with the european transmission system operators for gas and electricity, we can achieve exactly this, and i think that this was the question proposed by mr kofod. to conclude, i would like to thank you for your support, and i would highlight the comment made by mr buzek that the proposal is here: the strategy was adopted. what we need now is to use the political momentum to increase the political will in the european union, in our member states, to implement this strategy and to work on this together with the support of our citizens. in this case, with such strong ownership, i believe that we will succeed and we will see that the energy union is built at an appropriate pace and with appropriate enthusiasm and energy.
in writing. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the vice-president's proposals 100% of the time. the sooner you translate them into legislative initiatives, the better. an efficient european single energy market where energy can move across borders as easily as goods or services, an energy union with less impact on the climate and which makes us more independent of supplies from russia: it is vital for europe. priority number one: the commission will continue to work on increasing and improving interconnections between national networks. it is also crucial for efficient investment in renewable energy. we need to make the most of solar, wind and hydro power where it is most available and then exchange it efficiently. but energy efficiency is also essential: energy savings in existing buildings should be made easier through smart financing. smart funding for smart buildings, let's roll out those models right now. and the co2 emissions from traffic must also be further reduced. with this package the commission is setting the bar high, and rightly so. it will find in this parliament a loyal ally in the rapid implementation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first like to respond to what president juncker said about the pnr. parliament has given up nothing and will see nothing. we have voted by a large majority for a resolution which is clear. we want a pnr at european level. to this end, we are asking the commission to come forward with proposals on necessity and proportionality, which are the two basic conditions for such a system, and we are also asking the council to act, that is to say to move forward with the approval of the data protection directive. this means that it is not we who will be reviewing our position, but that we will all three make sure - if the council and the commission do what they have to do - that we move forward together on this issue, and not separately or independently. secondly, mr juncker, i think you have produced a very convincing report on economic governance. i think that today we have finally done away with these contractual arrangements, this completely crazy idea that we have been working on for two years and that the commission was going to conclude an agreement with a state for reforms. i believe that we must move in a different direction, that is to say, towards a global convergence in the european union and the euro area. i think that's the right approach. that brings me to the third point that has been discussed in this informal council on greece. i think it was a wise decision, mr tusk, that four months' more time has been given, because that is the outcome of the deal with greece, so that they can describe the reforms that they want to make. i think that was a wise decision, but i hope they are going to be real reforms. i see that they want to take on tax evasion i think that is very good and they want to make proposals on corruption but that is not sufficient. i was not too impressed by the letter of the greek government of a few days ago. there are other things to do: for example, opening closed professions to young people; downsizing and reforming the public sector is also an absolute need in greece; and finally, transforming public banks into competitive private financial institutions something that greece does not have today. so i think that we really have to wait now for the additional proposals from the greek government before we can go further, but i think it was a good decision to take a period of four months, it was not going to be possible to do that job within a few days or a few weeks. i come finally to the question of ukraine. the issue is, as mr tusk said, that the minsk ii agreement has been breached 800 times, and i think that we have to reflect on this. we have to ask the question: is our strategy towards russia the right strategy? what is our strategy toward russia? it is: he moves into crimea and we react; he moves into the eastern provinces of ukraine and we react; he is breaking the minsk ii agreement and maybe we shall react. i think we have to do the opposite - that in a certain way we have to decide already now on additional economic sanctions, not to put them in place immediately but to say to the russian leadership: if you violate this or that agreement, these are the new economic sanctions that we shall put in place. not to wait we always react to a move of putin but to do the opposite, deciding with the european council, based on proposals by mr tusk and mrs mogherini, on a number of new economic sanctions, and telling the leadership in russia that these sanctions are going to be a reality if he continues his permanent aggression towards the agreements that have been made and to the ukrainian state.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to speak mainly about greece, starting with the question: did we really need a psychodrama that lasted almost four weeks? a psychodrama that saw the new greek government act as if the election campaign had continued beyond january 25, relying on inflammatory statements such as: "our country is bankrupt", which would obviously have consequences on the part of the ecb, or insisting on returning to the issue of war reparations. but just as irresponsible was the almost obsessive insistence of a number of council members on the statement: 'greece will pay!' or, in other words, 'greece will leave!' as, remember, in france in the 1920s: 'germany will pay!' these statements were all the more irresponsible since the leader who made them was none other than the german minister of finance, secondly, and i stress this, the new greek government is much more reliable in its promises than the old government of nea dimokratía - the equivalent of the epp - or pasok - the social democratic party - in terms of simply setting up a tax apparatus in greece. if the european union could bring its expertise and its striking power to bear on this matter, for example in relation to third countries such as switzerland, and in fact obtain the return of a number of unpaid taxes, i think it would be doing a real service to greece. thirdly, the greek economy must be put on a sustainable development path. i would say that we are in line with the commission's priorities: investment and energy transition - we have already spoken about this today. imagine: greece could become a net energy exporter, especially to the rest of the union. i believe that this is a very useful source of financial resources for the greek state and the greek economy, and that we must therefore give priority to investment, particularly european investment, in the energy transition in greece. i would just like to conclude by saying that no one here can have an interest in playing on the failure of the new greek government, for lowly political reasons. because the failure of the new greek government would inevitably mean the victory of the anti-european populists.
i wish i'd made a few quick calls. i call on my fellow members to take a constructive approach to the pnr report by ecr rapporteur timothy kirkhope, which is being tabled tomorrow, apart from the dogmas of privacy, and to put a rush on it. i call on the european commission to draw up soon operational guidelines on common risk indicators for more targeted control of eu citizens at the external borders. finally, i call on the member states to build up greater mutual trust and to intensify the exchange of information and operational cooperation through europol. finally, i look forward to the revised version of the internal security strategy in april, because europe can indeed add value in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. the economic situation in the euro area, highlighted in recent days by greece, is a major issue for the future of the eu. the number of greeks threatened by poverty has more than doubled in five years. by voting for syriza, the message is clear! the greeks want to get their country out of five years of austerity imposed by the troika, which has cut one quarter of gdp while continuing to increase the debt ratio. greece therefore rejects the european measures put in place, namely fiscal consolidation combined with sharp cuts in labour costs, leading to high unemployment and poverty. the new greek government must be given the opportunity to implement the necessary reforms. athens, in its request for an extension of aid, guaranteed its european partners immediate reforms against tax evasion and corruption, as well as measures to address the humanitarian crisis and revive the economy. this example should be a warning to all european countries. austerity must not be the only measure! the revitalisation of public investment in europe to restart our economy and create jobs is also a key element.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i welcome mr draghi to this house. mr draghi, as a committed european i have always had somewhat ambiguous feelings towards the ecb under your leadership and you know that. on the positive side i must say that you have always shown decisiveness, even in uncharted territory, when it came to buying time for policy-makers to take up their own responsibilities and for that i believe that we europeans should be thankful for your action, and i mean it. on the other hand, and you know this, i find that frequently you have overstepped your role by actually stepping into political territory, especially when you were advocating and sometimes intimidating governments into taking structural reforms which were politically oriented. of course i respect political orientations but i have always said that it was not for central bankers to decide on that. but in the latest case, when the greek finance minister declared his country bankrupt, i recognised that you, as the ecb, had little choice but to take the decision that you took: saying, well, if the finance minister says that his country is bankrupt, if i want to keep the credibility of the ecb, which is of course its golden value, we have no alternative but to say we cannot accept this as collateral. so there i recognise that you had no alternative. i just want to say something about completing the genuine monetary union. you are an independent person and so i would expect you to say the obvious: there has been no monetary union, ever in human history, that has worked without being a true budgetary union, a true fiscal union on the income side of the equation as well as on the expenditure side of the equation. you used to say that. and there is no fiscal union without a democratic union, because there should be no taxation without representation. we do indeed need a federal body that is able to make the necessary transfers to compensate for the macroeconomic imbalances that exist in any monetary union. so i expect you to be courageous enough to say the obvious because at least you are not politically accountable so you are free to say what you really think.
the european central bank is independent in its decisions and there has been some discussion about that, including in the belgian parliament. but independence does not mean that she is not responsible for her decisions and mr draghi should be held accountable for some of them. that is why i cannot understand why mr draghi left this debate prematurely. because let's face it, the decision to print euros unchecked is not a good decision. it is high time we looked beyond the short term, we looked beyond our long noses. we shall then see the negative consequences of this policy of the european central bank. it's a policy that has bad consequences for savers. our euros are losing value. we see our interest rates fall. today also showed that it is a policy that is bad for our pension institutions. today a belgian pension fund announced that it is having problems with the distribution of pensions. but what bothers me most of all is that this is a policy that unnecessarily encourages people to take risks. ordinary savers have to become experts in stocks. pension funds have to take risks with our pensions. this is a policy which we cannot support. for us it is clear: let us get rid of this quantitative easing, let us stop printing unrestrained euros. the only way forward is the way of structural reforms.
ladies and gentlemen, if you look at a document today, in the presence of an empty chair, which deals with the ecb in 2013, you will realise how long the borderless limbo of this eurozone has been going on. the ecb's annual report at the time already stated that the fall in interest rates did not translate into higher lending, economic growth or jobs, and neither then nor now has any lessons been learned from this. today, in 2015, another attempt is being made to buy up 1.1 billion worthless government bonds, including from distressed countries. this too will not be economically viable. the problem is the design of a monetary union for unequal participants, who are now being forced to become equal. in 2013, it became public that the ecb was overstepping its own mandate. the ecb is now proceeding with this matter calmly, and more so than ever. the necessary independence of the ecb has today become a politically operative arm of a failed supranational eu structure which has become an economic, social and identity threat to all citizens of the euro countries.
in writing. after food shortages and rampant inflation, political repression accelerated last week with the arrest of an opposition figure, caracas mayor antonio ledezma. i now fear that the bolivarian republic is about to plunge into a human catastrophe. the arrest last thursday night of the mayor of the caracas metropolitan area and longtime opposition figure antonio ledezma, accused of fomenting a coup to overthrow president nicolás maduro, represents a new escalation in the crisis. the fall in oil prices is hurting venezuela, which is one of the countries with the largest black gold reserves in the world. about 95% of venezuelan exports are oil. the deterioration of the situation over the past year has led to a dangerous polarization; the government and the opposition are unable to talk. the solid foundations of stability cannot be built by a coup d'état or by prolonged repression. venezuela urgently needs help in building political consensus. it is urgent to establish a realistic dialogue facilitated and supervised by the international community to deal with the most urgent issues, namely economic reforms and the organisation of the parliamentary elections scheduled for this year.
mr president, the steel industry and its workers are going through a serious crisis. steel is an indispensable element in many value chains and yet it suffers. in addition, the stainless steel industry is faced with unfair practices and genuine dumping from china. for workers in the sector, particularly in belgium in places like genk and chatelet, this is the anxiety of today. we must defend our industrial successes against practices which distort competition. there is urgency and the commission must act quickly, without using the full 15 months available to it. it is essential that the high level group on steel is convened quickly in order to put in place an effective strategy that will give a future to our steel industry and in particular to our production of stainless steel. the reindustrialisation of europe requires investment but also solid support. we must give ourselves the means to decide quickly and firmly.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that i present to you this report on equality between women and men, or rather, the reduction of inequalities. this report is the result of a long and intensive work with the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i would like to congratulate: mrs gabriel for the ppe group, mrs bilbao barandica for the alde group, mrs vallina for the gue/ngl group, mrs lunacek and mr urtasun for the greens/efa group, mrs aiuto for the efdd group and mrs von storch for the ecr group. in fact, it is their work that makes this report effective, concise and structured. it starts with a very simple observation: while we are in the aftermath of international women's rights day, equality is still far away. indeed, at the rate we are going in europe, we would have to wait until 2038 to reach the target of a 75% employment rate for women, and 2084 for equal pay. but let us rejoice, parity in national parliaments, in the european institutions and in the boards of european companies should be possible in 20 years! it is time to go beyond good words to action. this report recommends a set of measures to be taken to achieve real equality much faster. we therefore urge the european institutions and the member states to include the gender dimension in policy-making, including in the context of the european semester, the budget and the allocation of funds. this is a prerequisite for achieving the europe 2020 objectives, which are still a long way off. the second point i would like to stress is that the member states and the european institutions must implement better inclusion strategies to address the gap between pension rates and reduce the risk of poverty which is much more common among women, and single mothers in particular. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i would like to point out that equal participation of men and women in the labour market would lead to an increase in gross domestic product of more than 12% by 2030. this is an economic argument to consider as we are still struggling in times of crisis. employment is essential, but there is more to life than work. promoting work-life balance for men and women must be a priority, including by investing in childcare and care facilities, and by supporting the updating of the maternity leave directive and the creation of paternity leave. real equality between women and men requires respect and non-violence, and in particular non-violence in the home. i therefore urge the member states to ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible. only eight eu member states have already done so. what are the others waiting for? it is also essential to create a european year dedicated solely to the fight against violence against women. i have, moreover, together with other colleagues, including many fictitious rapporteurs, launched a written initiative on this subject, which i invite all my colleagues present and those who have left the chamber to sign. we also need to fight gender stereotypes, because it is from childhood that inequality develops, becomes alive, and this is in all aspects of our society. the proliferation of laws will be of no use if they are not supported by a public opinion that is aware of the issue of gender. finally, the report recalls the right of women to control their own bodies. i know, ladies and gentlemen, that many of you have received messages from certain lobbies which are contrary to our values and to women's rights. but this report is not just about that. it is equality and reducing inequality that we really need to focus on. i therefore call on all members to support this report, which is a strong signal to the european institutions, to national governments but also and above all to the citizens, especially since the report was rejected last year. that was a bad signal from parliament. in conclusion, i would like to thank the collaborators who have been very valuable to me in this matter: marie ramot, my assistant, and emmanuelle le texier, from the s&d group, who have really made sure that this work is well supported. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the tarabella report certainly has its merits. in general terms, the n-va can agree with this, especially when it comes to abortion, reproductive health and sexual rights for women, areas in which belgium is still playing a leading role. i am also very pleased with the specific attention in the report to women with disabilities and the reference to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. women with disabilities have much less opportunities in the labour market and, in addition, because girls with disabilities have fewer opportunities to study, they often end up in low-paid jobs later in life. while employment rates are not the only factor in gender inequality, they can provide an indication of the risk of poverty or social exclusion for women and girls with disabilities. with 40 million vulnerable women and girls in the eu, we need to tackle structural inequalities forcefully at all policy levels.
mr president, i thank our colleague, mr marc tarabella, for the excellent report he has produced, also with other colleagues, with all the compromises that have been incorporated in this report. this report shows us that in the 21st century we are still the victims of many inequalities. i use the word 'victim' because, indeed, when these inequalities are due to discrimination, well yes, we have to say that we are victims of this discrimination. does that mean we're incapable of fighting? of course not. i'm not going to. we are doing that today in this report. this report makes a number of recommendations, which are recommendations for voluntary policies, and i see that here in this house we all agree that there are inequalities and that this is unfair, but there is a part of this parliament which says: 'we must act' and there is another part which says: 'let's leave it alone, it will sort itself out'. no, this will not be solved by itself, we need voluntary policies on quotas and on the istanbul convention for the elimination of violence against women and the right to dispose of one's body so that we can decide when we want to have children. i would like to return to the question of maternity and say that it is a source of discrimination at the moment. it discriminates against young girls who want to go to work, it discriminates against pregnant women in the protection of employment, it makes them vulnerable because they can fall into poverty when they do not have a decent salary. all of this today means that we have poor employment rates for women and that we have a falling birth rate. i would encourage all those who want to increase the birth rate in europe to support the maternity leave directive. and it is not by putting the maternity leave directive into the refit system that we are going to solve all these problems. on the contrary, we need this directive on maternity leave: i am sending the message to the commission again and i am also sending it to the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr chauprade, who has already left, that i am not french like him, as he said. i don't mind being called french, but i'm a belgian elected official. i am one of the 40% of belgians whose mother tongue is french. but more seriously in relation to this debate: two particular points, often raised, and a general observation. first, the quotas. we have talked about this a lot, and the first person to say it was mrs atkinson who said: 'we don't need quotas. and in our own country, ukip, we are setting a good example". i notice she can't do the math, because ukip is 6 women out of 23 elected, that's 30%. this is less than the average for many political groups. in this respect, i would like to congratulate the five star movement in its political group, which includes 8 women out of 17. in other words, almost half of the elected officials are elected officials. on the subject of quotas, i would like to pay tribute to a man: he is a european conservative named ansgar gabrielsen, the norwegian minister for industry and the economy. in 2001, it found that in 1993 there were 3% of women on the boards of large companies in norway. when he became minister, he said, "this has to change". he introduced quotas to the great general criticism, especially from the conservatives, and what happened? in 2008, there were 43 per cent women on the boards of large companies in norway. that's the highest rate in the world. we had to have quotas. they are a necessary evil, but they can no longer be questioned, since society is not evolving as fast as it should. secondly, the principle of subsidiarity, which is often mentioned. we are not here to initiate it, we are talking about an own-initiative report. so we are not going to change the laws in the member states, we are not going to interfere in their internal politics, in their jurisdiction. however, it is normal that when we address women's rights, and therefore inequality, we can address all rights and take stock at european level. if we do not discuss this issue in this house, we will not discuss it anywhere. i would like to thank all those who have generally welcomed the report. i hope that it will be voted on tomorrow, because it is important to talk about and focus on equality between women and men, and especially on inequality, by trying to reduce it more quickly than is the case today.
president. - mr president, we all know that the health costs of endocrine disruptors are enormous. this has already been proved by studies by the world health organisation and unip, this has been proved by the study by professor kortekamp, which was requested by the commission's dg envi, and this has also been proved by the study which was made public last week and to which you and mr pargneaux referred. the scientists say very clearly that the cost is at least 157 billion, 1.23% of the gross national product. according to these scientists, hormone disruptors do indeed cause lower iq, more obesity in adults and at least 5% of all cases of autism. so the situation is very serious. the european parliament has always supported the recommendations of professor kortekamp. there is a need for clarity on the definition of endocrine disruptors. in 2009 and 2011, the council and the parliament already made provision for interim criteria, but in 2009 the commission was also given the task of coming up with permanent criteria by the end of december 2013. in the meantime, another five years have passed, five years of debate, five years of lobbying from industry to the highest levels of the european commission. when it comes to hormone-disrupting substances, incompetent scientists have been responsible for sowing doubt, a tactic we also know from the tobacco industry. murder and arson was the cry of industry. the secretary-general of the commission, mrs day, decided to initiate an impact study. but that 's incredible . an impact study on scientific facts! it's like going to the source of cancer and asking the industry that makes the cancer-causing products: how do they cause cancer? no, you have to be with scientists to do that. the commission is therefore failing in many respects. she's not meeting her legal obligations. there is a case before the court of justice initiated by sweden, supported by parliament and supported by the council. secondly, it does not take the horizontal approach as required by the seventh environmental action programme and the roadmap. the commission is restricted to pesticides and biocides. thirdly, the commission is putting lobbying before science. commissioner, take your responsibility, act quickly, make sure that health comes before the interests of industry.
i would also like to begin by thanking mr leichtfried for his work. it was a long-winded job. we've worked a long time to get this thing done, and here we are. we have actually made a lot of progress in terms of real technical standards, more aerodynamic trucks, longer and heavier trucks that can be on the road, to bring a little bit of environmental friendliness and safety into the system. this is also, of course, a single market story. if you set standards, it is also logical that they should be applied in the same way throughout europe, throughout the internal market. it is particularly in the transport market that it is very important to make a real effort to further integration. it's not up to us to decide what's the best mode of transportation. the various modes must work together, intermodally, co-modally, to find the best solution for the market, for the people who are active in the market. they're the ones who decide what it's about. in this respect it is also important to allow innovation, to provide new possibilities to ensure that transport can be carried out effectively in the safest and most environmentally friendly way possible, while also keeping in mind cost efficiency. in this respect, it seems to me very strange that the text does not mention any countries which are currently carrying out pilot projects or where it is now permissible to have longer lorries on the road. these trucks should be able to cross the border, too. in a single market, this is normal. it is therefore very bizarre that there are still members of parliament who believe that new barriers, new dams can be erected on the internal transport market. we have a good compromise in general, except for the last bit of the internal market. there's still a little work to be done. i therefore ask the commission to be very attentive.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr lamassoure and colleagues and also the council and the commission for bringing this file to a good end. i think in the end we have reached a compromise which is workable in the market; that is important. the capital markets union – which we are talking about today and also will be in the coming weeks – is all about creating diversity both for investors and companies which are in need of finance. i think that today we have given them a piece of the puzzle where we say: look for investors, especially institutional investors, and we can create a fund; we have a label here which allows you to invest in the long term, not only in infrastructure projects, but also in non—listed companies and in smes which also need a stable shareholding base. i think it is important that with this label we give investors the diversity that they need. this is also a new tool for companies to raise money and to look for new investments in their companies which are looking for a stable shareholding base. it is important also for the small— to mid—cap companies to allow this. of course, the work is not finished. the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and pension funds, insurance companies and banks, even some high—net—worth retail investors, will have to come in to provide the necessary finance. we will have to continue to reform our economies to make them more competitive and to make sure that there are projects available for these funds to invest in. it is also important that we continue on this road to make sure that the whole capital markets union gets a more solid base. this can only work in a well—functioning capital market where there is a level playing field on tax, insolvency law and other things. i think commissioner hill has put forward a proposal and will work in the coming weeks and months to make this happen. i hope that what we have created here, this european long—term investment fund, this label, will attract the necessary people to look at the longer term and bring about more financing options and more diversity in our economy because i think that is what we need: more investment, more growth and, ultimately, more jobs for improving the well—being of the people in europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is a rich continent, not only in its history and diversity but also in its financial wealth. and yet europe is failing to invest, to plan for the future. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. investing in the energy transition - there is a lot of talk these days about the energy union - investing in education, research, innovation, the conditions for european competitiveness, investing in the restoration of our natural resources, the restoration of our social cohesion, is a matter of survival for our european union. yet these investments do not materialise. why would you do that? because for the last 20 years, the dominant dogma has been dictatorship and the maximisation of short-term profit. twenty years of financial deregulation, of financialization of everything and everything in the sole logic of profit, of its maximization, of the immediate return for the investor. how dare we call investors banks, investment funds, insurance companies, individuals who "invest" in companies for a microsecond? how can you talk about investors when even the most conservative of the insurance companies tell you they don't want to hold a stock or a bond for more than five years? so that is the question we have to answer. what can i do? this text, mr lamassoure, is a step in the right direction but a step of complete modesty. the aim is to attract investors to investment funds which are designed to operate over the long term. but i am surprised, in any case, that the council has refused - and mrs vestager has stressed this - the quota for european investment. we were very modest, we said that in order to be labelled as european long-term investment funds, 60% of the investments of these investment funds had to be invested in europe. the council considered that this was a red line which could not be crossed. what does the council want? does he want to favour investors or to favour investment in europe? i think that by refusing the quota the council has shown which side it is on. we shall vote for this text, but we believe that if we really want to revive longterm investment in europe, other measures are essential. first, retail banks should be distinguished from deemed investment banks. when you force the banks that collect the savings to do only one thing, which is to lend money to the real economy, and you close the casino to them, the entire european savings will ipso facto go to the real economy. secondly, we must have the courage to tackle a series of financial products whose sole purpose is to squeeze the lime out of the planet and the lime out of our societies to extract the maximum short-term profit from them. finally, a genuine european investment plan must be drawn up. i would like to draw two figures together: 13 billion is the public money that the juncker plan promises to mobilise, and it is one hundredth of the fraud and tax evasion in europe. if we were serious about fighting tax fraud and tax evasion, that's a trillion euros that would be going into the public coffers. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer.– it is becoming a habit for us to dialogue in this room. yes, i agree. i do not believe that 100% of the economy should be driven by public investment. public investment is needed, and that was the last of my three points. the first point was about the separation of banks, and why is that? well, because we want private savings. here i am speaking about private savings; we want them to be funnelled to the real economy. we need private investment. but what i have witnessed in my 22 years’ career in the private sector is that the time horizon of private investors has become ever shorter, not even for a quarter, but for a month or a week or a microsecond. i do not call that investment. so yes, i want private money to be invested, and private profits are legitimate as long as they result from value creation for society.
mr president, i thank mr lamassoure for his report, which shows that this long-term investment fund is a proposal for a new financing framework to enable private companies to invest in the real economy of the european union and thus create jobs through growth. this can of course be a good thing, although i would also like to stress the importance which we in the s&d group attach to public investment to combat deflation and finance strategic investment policies, because public capital should not be used solely as a guarantee for private sector risk-taking. as regards eltifs, i would like to set out a certain course of action by stressing the importance of avoiding speculative investments and the use of a capital market which is not sufficiently controlled. similarly, we need a clear definition of what is called infrastructure when we talk about private funding through this programme. it is obviously important to me that this new long-term fund should invest in productive infrastructure and not in non-productive assets, where there is no shortage of finance, such as residential real estate, for example, which can lead to speculative bubbles and would not contribute to the objectives of growth and job creation. finally, i would like to conclude with a condition which is imperative: it is obviously the location of the portfolio, which cannot be established in a country which does not meet the requirements for combating tax havens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the polish authorities had requested from the eu in the wake of the redundancies in the company and in two of zachem's suppliers. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the company could not have foreseen the huge rate of redundancies due to its main supplier of tdi (toluyl diisocyanate) to the market. however, the low-cost production and the low-cost transportation can be interpreted as the reason for the 615 redundancies. it is therefore welcome that the eu has accepted poland's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ over the past 20 years, the global chemical industry has followed a trend of migration to asia. in the face of very strong competition, the european union's position in the sector has been greatly reduced. in this context, 615 workers at zaklady chemiczne zachem in poland were made redundant as part of a sudden restructuring. the egf's support of eur 115 205 to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 50 most disadvantaged among these redundant workers is certainly justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at the polish company zachem, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to labour market opportunities. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the german authorities had requested in the wake of the redundancies at aleo solar ag and two of its subsidiaries. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to supply the union industry. this, together with the decline in demand worldwide, has led to a fall in prices. as china exports around 80% of its production to europe at low prices, the demand for chinese products was higher than for those of the german company aleo solar. this explains the 615 redundancies in the company and two of its subsidiaries. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted germany's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ faced with aggressive competition, and in particular chinese overproduction in the photovoltaic sector, germany's market shares fell sharply from 64% to 21%. in this context, the german company aleo solar had to suddenly close its doors in 2014, laying off 657 workers. the egf's support of eur 1 094 760 is fully justified in implementing a major action and service plan to promote the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies in the german company aleo solar, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to labour market opportunities. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by the belgian authorities in the context of the closure of duferco and the reduction of staff at nlmk. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the redundancies and subsequent closure of the two plants can be explained by the fact that the eu market share decreased drastically while the chinese market share increased during the same period. the decreasing demand for steel due to the economic crisis and the increase in production costs have also affected the competitiveness of the eu steel industry. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted belgium's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied for egf support following the redundancies at duferco and nlmk in la louvière, notably following the decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors. europe has released almost €1 million to help over 700 workers. i can of course only welcome this aid which will help to increase the efforts made in the training and vocational reorientation of these workers.
in writing. duferco and nlmk, two belgian companies active in the base metal manufacturing sector, had to make 708 redundancies due to major changes in the structure of world trade causing a sharp decline in the eu's market share in world markets, and leading to a decline in the competitiveness of the european steel industry and many job losses. it is imperative to help these workers who have been affected by the crisis to find work again. the proposal to mobilise eur 981 956 from the egf, thus enabling the conversion of 701 workers, is essential to support employment in view of the current difficulties in the steel sector.
in writing. ‒ good news for the walloon steel industry: the european parliament voted today to activate conversion aid for the 708 workers made redundant by duferco and nlmk, both active in the base metal manufacturing sector. this eur 981 956 grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is the european contribution of 50% of the needs for supporting former duferco and nlmk employees in their job search and, more broadly, in their career reorientation. it will ensure a strong industrial policy in a region of europe which is suffering the full effects of the eu's declining market share in the world steel production sector. this european aid for conversion is therefore welcome for the families of these workers. however, it cannot replace the establishment of a european industrial policy, which should be a priority of the new juncker commission to preserve european know-how in many cutting-edge sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at hainaut steel duferco-nlmk in la louvière, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to the opportunities of the labour market. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by the belgian authorities in the context of the 1285 redundancies at arcelormittal. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the company's redundancies can be explained by the fact that its eu market share decreased dramatically while the asian market increased during the same period. the decreasing demand for steel due to the economic crisis and the increase in production costs have also affected the competitiveness of the eu steel industry. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted belgium's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ europe has provided eur 1.59 million to help 910 workers affected by the effects of unbridled liberalism to undergo further vocational retraining.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted on four requests for financial contributions via the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 2 498 belgian workers who were subject to collective redundancies in 2013-14 by several large companies in belgium in the steel, glass and construction machinery sectors. among these were 1 285 former arcelormittal workers in liège. as a belgian and as the alde group coordinator for the european parliament's committee on budgets, the body responsible for this type of request, i have followed very closely the progress of these european financial contributions and i am glad to have been able to give my full support to them. of course, they will not replace the jobs that all these workers have lost, but i hope they can help them cope with the difficulties they are going through. the priority now is to help these workers get back into work through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during their working careers. this is what the globalisation adjustment fund is helping to achieve.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. nearly €1.6 million was allocated to finance the conversion, training and upgrading of entrepreneurship. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the staff of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control and the cost of the staff of the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ a europe that is close to its citizens is also, and above all, a europe that acts when they are directly affected by economic redundancies. this is the case today with the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) mobilisation mechanism voted this afternoon by the european parliament: 1 285 workers made redundant by arcelor mittal will receive aid totalling eur 1 591 486. this fund is the european contribution of 60% of the needs to support former arcelor mittal employees in their job search and, more broadly, in their career reorientation. it cannot be used to keep firms in business, to help them modernise or restructure. as is the case in most economic redundancies, people are affected in a sector that is experiencing the full force of global competition. a necessary but not sufficient boost to preserve european industrial policy, one of the union's main economic health vectors from which every member state and every citizen can benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at arcelormittal in liège, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to the opportunities of the labour market. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by the belgian authorities in the context of the 1030 redundancies at caterpillar. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the company's redundancies can be explained by the fact that its eu market share decreased dramatically while the asian market increased during the same period. the decreasing demand for steel due to the economic crisis and the increase in production costs have also affected the competitiveness of the eu steel industry. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted belgium's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied for egf support after more than 1000 workers were made redundant following the company's decision to relocate a significant part of production. europe has released €1.2 million to help 630 workers. i can only welcome this help which somewhat mitigates the effects of blind liberalism and the unfortunate strategic choices of management. these amounts will make it possible to increase aid for the training and socio-occupational reintegration of dismissed workers.
in writing. ‒ good news in the social sky: the european parliament gave its final green light to the payment of aid for the conversion of the 1 030 workers at caterpillar. this eur 1 222 854 grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) represents the european contribution of 60% of the needs for supporting former employees of caterpillar, a company active in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector, in their job search and, more broadly, in their vocational reorientation. the area of charleroi, which is affected by the redundancies, is particularly in need of this aid, as 59% of the unemployed in this region are low-skilled. as is the case in most economic redundancies, people are affected in a sector that is experiencing the full force of global competition. this european aid for conversion is therefore welcome for the families of these workers. however, it cannot replace the establishment of a european industrial policy, which should be a priority of the new juncker commission to preserve european know-how in many cutting-edge sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at caterpillar, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to labour market opportunities. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the compromise because it not only makes trucks safer, but also makes an important contribution to environmental protection thanks to aerodynamic features.
in writing. ‒ regulations should be introduced on the permissible dimensions and weights of road vehicles in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve road safety. this better regulation will also make it possible to adapt legislation to technological advances and to the needs of the market in general, but it will also strengthen european standards in order to facilitate intermodal transport operations.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to amend directive 96/53/ec to improve the aerodynamics of vehicles and their energy efficiency, while continuing to improve road safety. the proposal provides for derogations from the maximum vehicle dimensions, allows for an increase in the weight of electrically or hybrid driven vehicles by one tonne, aims to facilitate the development of intermodal transport, confirms that the cross-border use of longer vehicles is legal for journeys crossing only one border, if the two member states concerned already allow it, and finally adds new provisions to enable the supervisory authorities to better detect infringements and to harmonise the administrative penalties applicable to them. since this proposal does not affect the budget of the european union and since it was necessary to amend directive 96/53/ec because of a number of shortcomings, i decided to support this proposal and to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ more security, less greenhouse gas emissions this is the newsletter that european trucks should soon be presenting following the european parliament's vote this morning approving amendments to european provisions on the design of heavy goods vehicles. two things: trucks, buses and coaches produce about a quarter of the co2 emissions from road transport in the union and about 5% of the total greenhouse gas emissions and are often involved in serious traffic accidents, as today's news shows again. these vehicles must meet strict size and weight standards to protect infrastructure and ensure road safety. today, with the evolution of technology, these 1996 rules are obsolete. the new provisions will enable manufacturers to design trucks that are more environmentally and safely performing without reducing their load capacity. for example, better aerodynamics would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 7 to 10 percent and rounder cabs would reduce dangerous blind spots. european trucks will therefore soon be safer, cleaner and more efficient.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we adopted, at second reading, the revision of directive 96/53/ec on the maximum dimensions and weights of lorries (also known as 'mega lorries'). the text adopted aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve road safety. it allows, on the one hand, the addition of retractable aerodynamic devices to the rear of vehicles and the installation of rounded cabs, which will now offer the driver a better overall view (which i welcome because every year there are on average between 350 and 400 accidents between a truck and a weak user, of which about 30 are directly due to the blind spot). and secondly, the new rules are designed to make trucks more environmentally friendly. these new types of heavy duty trucks are expected to be in circulation from 2022. it is now up to the council to approve this text in april.
in writing. ‒ the n-va supports the new directive on vehicle dimensions and weights. the previous directive was adopted in 1996 and was therefore in urgent need of revision. the updated directive aims to improve the safety of all road users and to achieve environmental gains by focusing on the energy efficiency of vehicles. although the revision certainly includes steps in the right direction, the n-va regrets the continuing legal uncertainty for cross-border transport by ecocombines. these ecocombis were an important part of the original proposal of the european commission, but were unfortunately scrapped by a majority in the european parliament and the council. a missed opportunity. in flanders, the first ecocombi hit the road earlier this year. the n-va remains fully behind the pilot projects and remains committed to further cooperation with neighbouring countries such as the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ we insist on the objective of moving freight from road to rail and river transport and welcome the unanimous vote in the committee on transport. this is a "positive signal" for the fight against climate change. mega trucks are no longer relevant, except in very localized cases. the text is generally very concerned with the safety of road users and takes into account the preservation of the environment, with the promotion of alternative fuels and the aerodynamics of vehicles. the road is still too important for the transport of goods in europe, but parliament is sending a positive signal today for the fight against climate change!
in writing. ‒ the objective of this long-term investment fund (eltif) is to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. it finances long-term projects outside the banking sector, which are intended to contribute to infrastructure or research projects. the creation of this new regulatory framework is to be welcomed because it both protects retail and private investors and addresses the reluctance of banks. society and the real economy benefit from each other.
in writing. ‒ the long-term investment fund is a proposal for a new financing framework to enable private companies to invest in the real economy of the european union and thus create jobs through growth. at the moment, reinvestment in productive investment is essential to revive the economy and employment. it is therefore essential that europe takes up and promotes these projects, particularly in the context of the horizon/europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the provisions to address the reluctance of banks to lend to smes and to certain research projects. smes are the engine of our european economy. they represent 99% of enterprises and employ more than 100 million europeans. they need funding to remain competitive and innovative. the creation of european long-term investment funds (eltifs) will put funds of non-bank origin directly into the real economy, contributing to long-term projects, in particular for infrastructure, intellectual property or research.
in writing. ‒ desperate search for private capital: this is the most common activity in the european institutions today. in view of the bleak state of public finances, combined with the difficulty of the states in generating new revenue, a new path is emerging, the one chosen by the commission and confirmed in the lamassoure report: mobilizing private capital through the creation of this new financing instrument, the european long-term investment funds (eltif). a fund that would invest, for example, in unlisted companies or european infrastructure projects. the commission estimates that around €2 billion of private investment is needed to launch its policy of major works by 2020: the trans-european transport network by rail, road or canals, as well as projects on innovation and digitalisation. while potential investors for whom eltifs can provide a stable source of income have been identified, such as pension funds, insurance companies, foundations and municipalities, the keys to success have yet to be invented. it will take a lot of persuasion from the juncker commission to convince these investors to hold off on their investment in the european project for a while.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds and i followed the recommendation of my political group on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in light of the benefits that a reduction in transaction costs for card payments brings to the eu internal market and its consumers, this initiative is very welcome. i am also pleased that the competition rules are being applied consistently in the area of clearing charges.
in writing. ‒ the fees that banks charge retailers for processing customer payments will be capped by this measure. the ceiling will apply to national and cross-border payments and should result in reduced costs for consumers. this is good news for the transparency of payment charges and for the consumer who will see his costs reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation limiting the fees charged by banks for credit and debit card transactions. currently, merchants must accept all cards under the conditions set by the banks. the calculation of the fees charged to traders varies from country to country and from bank to bank. the whole system lacked transparency. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. for purchases by debit card, these charges will be limited to 0.2% in a cross-border transaction. for domestic debit card transactions, a transitional period of five years has been set. after this period, the fees will be limited to 0,2% or eur 0,05 per transaction. i have wholeheartedly supported the compromise proposed by the rapporteur because the regulation is in the interests of consumers and traders. it should mainly benefit buyers as a result of lower transaction costs. however, traders will be free to pass on or not to the selling price the reduction in payment costs resulting from these ceilings.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the interinstitutional agreement on the regulation on the capping of multilateral interchange fees (mifs) for payments by immediate debit and credit cards. as a reminder, mifs are paid by a merchant's bank to the bank of the holder of the payment card used for the transaction. they are allowed in some member states at different maximum levels (up to 1.5%), but are prohibited elsewhere. consumer organisations point out how much these mifs provide excessive revenue to the mastercard and visa networks and how they are ultimately reflected in the price of goods purchased by the consumer. the vote on this report should therefore be a game changer and i welcome this because, under the new provisions, retailers who choose a card system will now only have to accept cards from that system which are subject to the cap provisions. by exercising this right, they could accept a reduced range of cards, but the capped fees should also reduce costs for both retailers and customers (for example, for all credit card payments, the cap will now be set at 0.3% of the transaction value).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report with great conviction. the eu is putting limits on the excessive costs of accepting payment cards. the agreement between member states and parliament to set a legal ceiling on the fees that banks and credit card companies can charge is a good thing. retailers in europe are overpaying €6 billion a year for accepting payment cards because there is no healthy competition in the payment market. consumers are paying the price in the end. this legislation will put an end to that. at the moment, visa and mastercard have a duopoly on the european market. these companies and the banks that issue their cards make a lot of money from this lack of competition at the expense of retailers who end up passing on higher prices to consumers. the payment industry's fierce lobby has not been successful. parliament has defended the interests of consumers rather than the excessive profits of these credit card giants. the maximum rate of 0.3% of the purchase price for credit card transactions and 0.2% for payments directly debited from the account will apply. however, member states may also choose to fix a fixed amount of up to 5 cents per transaction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, convinced that safe, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments are essential if consumers, traders and businesses are to enjoy the full benefits of the internal market, especially as global trade becomes electronic. the fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and job creation within the union. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to remove direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning and completion of an integrated electronic payments market, in which there is no distinction between national and cross-border payments.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by the belgian authorities in the wake of the 257 redundancies at saint-gobain. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the company's redundancies are explained by the fact that the decrease in production of safety glass for motor vehicles in the eu and the increasing market share of competitors from outside the eu and their increasing imports into the eu have led to an increase in the number of redundancies in saint-gobain. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted belgium's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied for egf support following the 257 redundancies at saint gobain sekurit in auvelais, a company specialising in the manufacture of glass for the automotive industry, following the collapse of the glass market. europe will release almost €1.34 million to help workers with training and reintegration into the workforce. another case concerning the glass sector will be tabled shortly. it concerns aid to be given to the 400 workers of agc in roux and saint gobain glass in auvelais. europe could release €1 million in the coming months and naturally i will be extremely attentive to the developments in the case.
in writing. ‒ good news in the social gray sky: the european parliament gave its final green light to the payment of aid for the conversion of 257 walloon workers at the glass manufactory, saint-gobain sekurit. this eur 1 339 928 grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is the european contribution, up to 50%, to support former saint-gobain employees in their job search and, more generally, in their career reorientation. the area concerned by the redundancies is located in the province of namur and in particular in the lower sambre employment area. as with many economic redundancies, people are affected in a sector that is undergoing intense global competition. in this particular case, the decrease in the market share of the european union in the production of safety glass for the automotive sector is the cause. this european aid for conversion is therefore welcome for the families of these workers. however, it cannot replace the establishment of a european industrial policy, which should be a priority of the new juncker commission to preserve european know-how in many cutting-edge sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies in the belgian company saint-gobain sekurit, as these contributions are a valuable aid to enable the conversion and reclassification of workers, in particular through training adapted to the opportunities of the labour market. nevertheless, the loss of jobs in many sectors is a painful reminder that such aid is not a panacea and that a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring is essential. more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future. in addition, the procedures for granting the egf should be accelerated and simplified to enable workers made redundant to cope with difficulties as soon as they arise.
in writing. - of course i voted for it! the accompanying measures were implemented as soon as the redundancies were announced in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. we have subsequently pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination so that international trade agreements do not totally destroy european industrial employment. these 5.2 million are of great importance for the walloon economic fabric. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees must not be the rule. it is worth remembering that this aid was made necessary because an international industrialist wanted to play with the fate of workers, treating them with contempt and great disrespect. europe must send a strong message to all the lakshmi mittals of the world that in europe there are no castes, no untouchables. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ overall, this report is to be welcomed as it contains many important elements on the subject of equal opportunities. as for the issue of abortion, i believe that it is and must remain less a european issue than a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this text by my colleague marc tarabella, which highlights a number of priorities to be pursued in terms of equality between women and men, such as increasing the employment rate of women, reducing the pay gap, promoting a directive imposing an ambitious maternity leave and, of course, deepening the fight against violence against women. finally, the report rightly recalls the right of women to control their own bodies in the context of the right to abortion.
in writing. while the gap between men and women is gradually narrowing, considerable efforts are still needed to achieve gender equality. the progress is still slow, and above all, it takes time. i therefore voted in favour of this report for two reasons. firstly, i have always been a strong advocate of equality between men and women in all areas. secondly, it was mainly about sending a strong message that gender equality must be a priority for all. it is therefore time to continue to address these inequalities, including through more innovative policies.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women has been a slogan, a flag and a battle for centuries in europe, and particularly since the beginning of the last century. we women have come a long way, but it is clear that while enormous progress has been made, inequality is still a reality in many cases. i will not list all the situations of blatant and culpable disparities between the treatment of men and women. however, speaking of pay, i could start by speaking of it in the literal sense: with the same function and responsibility, it will be 2084 before equal pay becomes a reality. this is obviously unacceptable and counterproductive for our economy. i do not think that the other figures in this non-binding resolution are serious, but our message was. in all respects, this debate is important and cannot be, as it often is, paternalistically circumscribed to women's committees or women's rights ministries. that is the way i have supported it this afternoon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013 because i support, among other things, the fight for equal pay, the fight against violence against women and guaranteed access to contraception and abortion. in the field of employment, i would urge the european parliament to ensure gender equality in terms of fair pay and pensions, greater flexibility in working arrangements, better pay for parttime work and legislation on the presence of women on boards. the council also needs to allow a positive outcome to the maternity leave problem, which has been blocked since 2010. it is also essential to promote scientific careers and ict for women, where there are, moreover, real needs. the report points to progress but also to weaknesses which need to be addressed as soon as possible. women are still particularly affected by poverty and reconciling work and private life remains a challenge in many ways. that is why, beyond european legislation, i encourage men and women to achieve a better balance between work and family responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ more than 100 years after the first international women's day, we are still discussing the same unresolved issues: equal pay for equal work, maternity leave, workers' rights, violence against women. it is time to make way for a society where everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities. every week we are confronted with news about the inequality between men and women and the prevailing stereotypes. an oecd study shows that girls do better than boys in secondary education, but still underperform in subjects such as math, science or computer science because parents and teachers unconsciously perpetuate gender inequality. in india, authorities are trying to ban the documentary "india's daughter", which interviews one of the perpetrators of the gang rape on a bus in late 2012. this is a violation of freedom of expression and a denial of how deeply rooted violence against women is in society. the numbers speak for themselves: women earn 16.4% less than men for equal work in 2012. women's employment has increased but is mainly part-time with adverse effects on social rights and pension accumulation. that is why i support the tarabella report.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament voted on the report on the state of women's rights and gender equality in europe. in this report we make a diagnosis of equal rights between men and women in europe and highlight the state of progress of the various projects. the verdict is not very encouraging: changes are too slow and women's rights suffer. but the majority vote on the report is a very strong symbol because it means that the european parliament shares this view and intends to use all its weight in support of the struggles that are ours such as equal pay, the fight against violence against women, maternity leave or the right to abortion. there are still far too many stereotypes when it comes to gender equality: unfair and backward stereotypes against women, but also against men who are willing to tackle these issues. today's vote is a powerful symbol against the conservatism and obscurantism that are eating away at europe! women and men are not and will never be equal, but it is in the interest of all that they have equal rights.
in writing. ‒ it is a shame that for the last 100 years we have been facing the same problems regarding equality between individuals, men and women: the fact that women are paid less for the same work as their male colleagues, maternity leave, violence against women, etc. ... every individual has equal rights and should enjoy equal opportunities. in europe and the rest of the world, we are faced with inequalities between men and women. how horrible are statements such as "she should have gone through with it, then it wouldn't have been so bad" or "she asked to go to a disco"? i fully support this report by my male colleague mr tarabella and look forward to the day when such reports are no longer necessary.
in writing. ‒ competition policy plays an important role in strengthening the approach to the internal market and in addressing economic, social and environmental challenges in europe. i welcome the fact that the commission is being asked to make improvements in various areas, such as the social and labour impact on the people in the area of state aid and the needs of citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the competition and competitiveness policy within the european union, which is extremely important in the current crisis. the report seeks to ensure fair competition and calls for action to combat dumping in the labour market. it also addresses fragmentation behaviours in the union's digital market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against paragraph 85, not because i am against fair competition, of course, but because such a general incentive in practice sometimes goes too far. in the case of port services, we must make a clear distinction between the economic activities of a port company and the public tasks it performs. the latter are not subject to the competition rules and we must therefore be able to expressly guard their public nature. such a general encouragement as that in paragraph 85 to the commission and the member states, which ignores the nuanced way in which we are supposed to apply competition rules, could not therefore count on my support.
in writing. competition policy is crucial in the current context in order to restore the european union's competitiveness on the world stage. i fully support the words of the commissioner responsible for competition, margrethe vestager, when she insists on the need to strictly enforce the competition rules, to fight cartels, to investigate abuses of dominant positions, to monitor the financial sector. it is vital to develop a competition policy in full respect of the treaties. it is about consumer welfare.
in writing. ‒ without a free and effective competition policy, the european union will not be able to impose its model on the global economy, namely fair rules for all economic actors and a significant share for smes, the main creators of innovation and jobs. that is to say, the importance of proper enforcement of the competition rules in the union as underlined in the messerschmidt report voted on this afternoon. competition policy must benefit consumers, businesses and society as a whole. it is also important to emphasise that certain sectors are strategic and require an appropriate union policy: the digital single market, the energy sector, industry and transport sectors. a logical focus on areas undergoing rapid change where, in the digital field, us companies have a near monopoly and, in the more traditional industries (automotive, shipyards, steel or robotics), asian companies occupy the pole position. if europe is to move up the gear, it must also know which direction to take. this is why the rapporteur's proposal to have current competition policy initiatives assessed to meet the challenges of globalisation is welcome.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted yesterday by a large majority (526 votes in favour, 108 against and 59 abstentions) the report on the annual report on competition policy, which specifically targets the giant google. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. to this end, the european commission was asked to take strong action against obstacles to competition, based on the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is an integral part of the union's genetic code. the three instruments of competition policy, established by the treaty of rome, are designed to maintain a level playing field and an open and dynamic market. this encourages companies to seek success on their own merits (price, quality and innovation) in order to meet the needs, preferences and wishes of intermediate and final consumers. the european social market economy would be unthinkable without competition. but i would like to make it clear that this cannot be possible without strict respect for consumers and workers, and that respect for labour and human rights must prevail!
in writing. ‒ the european political project is based on the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. this is only possible in a free and open competition. this competition policy is at the service of firms, consumers and society as a whole. only if it is efficient and free can it serve as a model for the rest of the world and thus contribute to a global free economy as a model of fairness, sustainability and with a focus on smes, employment and innovation. i fully support the rapporteur's proposal to have the current competition policy initiatives evaluated in order to meet the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the ecb's swift reaction in the face of the difficult situation and the fact that monetary policy has been aimed at reducing tensions in financial markets within the euro area and restoring investor confidence in the community currency.
in writing. ‒ this text assessed the activity of the european central bank for the year 2013. during this period, unemployment in the euro area reached 12% and gdp fell by 0.4%. an important point in this text is to recall the difficulty smes have in accessing credit, especially in the southern european countries. we are at a tipping point, a period of low economic activity with little inflation. the ecb must therefore put in place measures to revive the economy. we must remain cautious because the recovery is still weak and will be weak again in 2015 and 2016. inflation will remain below 2%.
in writing. the policy of the european central bank plays a key role in the outcome of the financial crisis which has affected the whole of europe. it helps to maintain price stability in the euro area and thus stabilise inflation. it is responsible for the prudential supervision of credit institutions established in the euro area, thus contributing to the safety and soundness of the banking system and to the stability of the financial system in the european union and in each euro area member state. it is worth recalling that mario draghi's plan to counter the collapse of monetary union is to be welcomed. the aim is above all to try to get back to an inflation rate of around 2%. finally, it should be stressed that there is a genuine and transparent dialogue between parliament and the ecb. the president of the ecb presents the annual report of the institution in plenary and takes part in a regular monetary dialogue with the committee on economic affairs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. however, i remain deeply concerned about the continued sluggishness of economic activity, with euro area gdp in 2013 showing negative growth for the second year in a row, and weak growth in the first three quarters of 2014, accompanied in many euro area member states by high unemployment rates that threaten the stability of the euro area and undermine popular and political support for the european project. moreover, i can only note the steady decline in the inflation rate in the euro area since 2011, which is accompanied by differences in inflation rates between member states. the significant gap between the ecb's explicit objective of keeping inflation below, but close to, 2% over the medium term and the current interest rates close to zero or even negative in several euro area member states should be highlighted. the risk, acknowledged by the ecb president, that current deflationary trends will undermine the anchoring of medium to longterm inflation expectations is real.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree in principle with the general guidelines proposed in the report by my friend mr josé manuel fernandes. i am, like him, fully convinced of the need to give priority to investment if we are to stimulate growth and hence employment in europe. this is the biggest challenge we face. and the timing is particularly favourable to do so, as three complementary schemes will join forces in 2016. the first is, as you know, the quantitative easing programme put in place by the european central bank. in concrete terms, by september 2016, €60 billion per month will be able to move from sovereign bonds to productive assets. the second favourable instrument is, of course, the juncker plan. in this respect, i would like to say that i fully agree with our rapporteur when he writes that the union budget will have to make available to this plan the eight billion needed to provide the guarantee. the third element of this mechanism is, of course, the union budget, which is essentially, as our rapporteur has pointed out, an investment budget and which must also stimulate growth and innovation. in conclusion, i agree with all my colleagues that we must tackle the problem of unpaid debts. this bad scenario has gone on long enough.
vice-president of the commission. for both parliament and the commission, the fight against abuse is key to having the confidence of our citizens to do our job. we in the commission have reviewed the report and i am very pleased that on a number of your recommendations we are already pursuing a positive follow-up. let me highlight some of these. first irregularities reporting we agree with your conclusion that we have to make a clear distinction between fraud and error. zero tolerance for fraud unquestionably, but with regard to errors we must invest in preventive action, simplification, and also in harmonisation across all expenditure categories, and this is work we are undertaking in a newly established group of commissioners that is dealing with the big spending areas. with regard to our cohesion policy, we also agree with your emphasis on building up preventive action and also on taking stock, as requested by parliament, at the mid-term assessment in 2018 of whether the new regulatory architecture of cohesion policy further prevents and reduces the risk of irregularities. we have been very carefully reading the report's views on public procurement. we recognise that it is still vulnerable to irregularities, fraud, corruption, and in this case we welcome the support you are giving to the transposition process of the new public procurement directive. this is an opportunity for member states to improve and it is also an opportunity for us in the eu institutions to carry forward the related changes to the financial regulation, which is currently under negotiation. i hope that we will complete this negotiation swiftly. we recognize that the anti-corruption stand in our institutions is paramount. for that reason we will include an assessment of the implementation of internal anti-corruption policies we are considering including it in the second eu anti-corruption report due in 2016. with regard to the european anti-fraud office (olaf), i have said many times that olaf is a critical building block in our anti-fraud, anti-corruption stand. we are working for olaf to have a sound interface with the olaf supervisory committee. i have been personally engaged in working with the supervisory committee to make sure that we have the enabling environment for olaf and for the supervisory committee to function. olaf has been quite open to approaching the supervisory committee, including on the issue of statistical tools and the outcome of analyses, which is done on the basis of their application. we are also looking at how we can further strengthen the independence of the supervisory committee in their human resources and budget management policies. we will come forward with some advancement on this front soon. we welcome the points made in the report on the european public prosecutor's office and the pif directive. i would say wholeheartedly that we appreciate your support. we are grateful for it. we need a european public prosecutor's office that is able to add value to the protection of the eu's financial interests. so we want to be ambitious and we want to have an institutional setup that produces significantly better outcomes in our fight against fraud and corruption.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in times of public deficit, and not only in those times, we must ensure that european taxpayers' money is spent correctly. every penny we have for european projects must be used wisely. this is a very important matter for me and my group. reporting waste and misuse of taxpayers' money damages the reputation of the european union and the image of politics in general. we must not do this to the enemies of the eu or the enemies of democracy. that is why we need to clarify this matter. this is important, also and especially in my area of expertise, cohesion policy, i.e. the use of structural funds such as the erdf, interreg or the esf. it is the eu policy area where the highest number of irregularities were recorded overall. that should give us something to think about. in the period under review in 2013, a total of 321 cases of fraud were reported, amounting to eur 156 million. in the area of non-fraudulent irregularities, 4672 cases were reported, representing a total of eur 1.2 billion in damages. that is 1.356 billion euros too much! we must ensure that european funding is used more efficiently in the member states. we need objective criteria to record fraud cases for all member states. so far, these uniform criteria have not been established. we also found that a number of irregularities were caused by overly complicated procedural rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action to prevent fraud in the event of fraud being committed. this includes, and above all, external controls and probably also the idea of the european public prosecutor. european tenders - you have just said that - are also a frequent source of irregularities. the recently adopted directives on european public procurement will or should help to reduce the problems, and it is therefore necessary to transpose these directives into national law as soon as possible. we can make sure that criminal energy has less of a chance to develop without problems. so i say again, every penny must be spent wisely. we owe it to the taxpayers in the eu.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to add my voice to the thanks and congratulations that have been addressed to you. i was rather proud, despite the few criticisms i heard, of the european union's role in dealing with this crisis. there was a quick mobilization. it is true that there are logistical delays on the ground, which are mainly due to the lack of logistical and infrastructure capacity in the various countries. that is why i would like to focus on sustainable infrastructure and on improving human and medical resources on the ground. that's a first point. this was requested: the famous marshall plan was called for - requested, at any rate - or solicited by the various heads of state in the region. that's a first question. question number two. i believe that in the discussions at this conference, a concept that i hold very dear has also emerged: the concept of universal health coverage. in other words, it is a question of helping the countries concerned to set up an embryonic social security system, so that they can intervene and, above all, eliminate social inequalities in the face of the disease.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs lunacek for the work she has done in producing this excellent and balanced report. kosovo is very close to my heart. i have had the honour and pleasure of visiting the country three times, with our then king of belgium and with then prime minister guy verhofstadt. that was right after the war. so i saw the destruction, too. by the way, our detachment didn't return to belgium until 2010. on paper, of course, kosovo has moved closer to europe in 2014, but in practice much remains to be done. the report gives a very good overview of both the achievements, encouraging the kosovars in their reform process, and the challenges still facing the country. it is clear to me and to the alde group that kosovo's path is towards a fully recognized independent state that is integrated into the european union. that must be the goal. however, kosovo is one of the poorest and most corrupt countries in europe, with an unemployment rate of over 35 percent. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. this exodus is estimated at 35,000 kosovars in the last three months, an unlikely figure. we are therefore fully in favour of the call for socioeconomic reforms contained in this resolution. let the citizens and the businesses, the companies, start again. make kosovo the beautiful country it is again, because when you go there, you see the beauty. we are therefore very happy, as alde, to support kosovo in this reform and integration process.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to make three points on this third european council of the year. firstly on russia: i think that what you have to try to do in the council is have unity on the issue of russia; on the issue of ukraine. what i see is a mess in the council, with mr orban making an energy deal with putin outside the energy union, and at the same time a spanish minister of foreign affairs going along with mr lavrov and saying that the sanctions are useless and not necessary. that is not the way to handle the european union and to have a common foreign policy. i think we need a two—track approach to russia. on the one hand, like i said in the last debate with mr tusk, we need a proactive approach instead of waiting for the next step that mr putin will take. what is our strategy for the future? it has to be a strategy where maybe we strengthen sanctions – i think it shall be necessary in the future, unfortunately. but at the same time we also have to come up with a positive package for russia and for the russian population, where we make a clear distinction between the putin regime on the one hand and russia and the russian population on the other. this is not a war against russia; this is not a war against the russian population, so why not decide on visa liberalisation for young people, for researchers, for businessmen of small and medium—sized companies inside russia? that is my first bit. the second is on the spring council. first of all, i want to say to mr rabbitte that he is right, as regards the semester, that there is the impression that there are two types of countries in the union – the small countries who have to apply the rules of the stability pact and the bigger countries who do not. that is a mistake because we are in fact repeating the mistakes of 2003 and 2004. that said – and i want to mention this especially for the representation of the council – it is a spring council, it is about creating the most competitive knowledge—based economy in the world – that is the buzzword we always use in the spring council. there is one thing you can do in this council, which is you can take a step in the direction of the digital single market and the telecoms market. you can, in fact, annul and eliminate the bad decision taken a few days ago by the eu ambassadors on roaming charges. that you can do. that should be a huge step in the right direction. india has today a fully digital single market with no roaming charges; with net neutrality. the americans now have no roaming charges inside their country, they abolished it and at the same time net neutrality has been the key, the rule in use. why can we not do that in europe? i find it a shame that it is at the level of eu ambassadors that a decision is taken to wait until 2018 for the digital single market, because that is the reality. i ask of you one thing. this third european council will be a big success if, in a few days’ time in this council, you decide to reverse the decision of the eu ambassadors, you decide not to give in to the interests of a few big telecoms companies in europe and you decide finally to get rid of the roaming charges and to bring about net neutrality in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i agree with you that, with 28 different diplomacies and 28 different armies, it is not possible. (heckling)you can continue with your british army – that is no problem for me – but if you look at the world of today, if you look at the empires of india and china, and the united states, and also russia, you will see that the time is very near when we are going to decide on a european army in the european union.
i would also like to speak today, mr president, about the energy union, one of the three main subjects on the council agenda. when commissioner šefčovič presented that, we as a whole group welcomed it. we believe that this should be one of the main priorities of this commission, because it is a very complex area. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy and the many ambitions we must have in this area, energy independence - we spend 420 billion a year on energy purchases outside the european union, an amount which we could better spend in other ways - and of course energy security, including for our citizens. that plan is a holistic plan, a collaborative plan, and you can't cherry-pick that. in the previous council conclusions, attention was paid to the energy union, but no mention was made of energy efficiency, for example, which is actually one of the backbones of that plan, because energy efficiency brings all these challenges together. if we want to meet our climate goals, we can do that by investing 40% in energy efficiency. and it is for this reason that in the investment plan we are working on in parliament, i, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, am calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to energy efficiency. today, only 5% of the initiatives put forward by the member states are devoted to energy efficiency. i want to reverse that. so i urge you to make energy efficiency a priority in the energy union.
mr president, we are simply pretending that nothing has happened with the greek transition and that no lessons have been learned. the euro is being used to its full potential, even though more and more economic factors and powers are being transferred from the member states to the european union in brussels, in order to achieve what is called harmonization. the core problem remains unaddressed (because that is part of your euroreligion), namely the very principle of a currency area for participants who are not equal and who are now being forced to become equal. the price is paid in economic stagnation and especially social dramas in southern europe. the southern euro countries are also frustrated with each other. spain and portugal are not happy, and rightly so, that greece is allowed to renegotiate reform plans in exchange for even more cheap loans, while other countries in need have not had that opportunity. we are not getting out of the fog with regard to the problems with greece and southern europe, no, we are driving a high-speed train to meet the dense fog. the southern crickets fought each other out of the tent and the northern ants, they toiled on diligently. european policy is further dividing europe. what an unfortunate paradox!
the internal market is the central engine of the european project. it is an important instrument for getting the economy back on track, creating jobs and attracting investment again. but the single market is far from complete. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. so it's important that we focus on two things: we must implement and transpose existing legislation and we must ensure the quality of new legislation, which must be clear, simple and easy to apply. by increasing the use of the internal market in the context of the european semester, i hope that these priorities will be a common thread running through the various policy areas of the european union.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, economic market governance is an essential element to be taken into account in the context of the european semester. i would like to stress the importance of the new public procurement directive adopted in january 2004 and for which i was the rapporteur in this parliament. it will undoubtedly improve the governance of the single market if member states make full use of the various options. i am thinking in particular of taking into account qualitative, social and environmental criteria, including the definition of the most economically advantageous supply, which will make it possible to move towards inclusive growth. i would remind you that public procurement accounts for 19% of the gross domestic product of the european union. the directive also makes it possible to extend the use of electronic means of awarding public contracts. we need to do everything we can to promote e-government and, more generally, a genuine digital single market, in which citizens and consumers can fully benefit from the digital economy.
mr president, it is time we dared to call the european semester programme what it really is: a chance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission's triangular approach in its annual growth analysis provides the right framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals. investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility are all necessary components to create sustainable growth and jobs. the commission is therefore making a very pertinent analysis of belgium, based on this framework of thinking, and is also pushing for debt reduction, an ambitious tax shift, the abolition of work, an urgent response to school dropouts and the greening of the economy, policy choices that should guarantee sustainable prosperity. finally, i am pleased that the commission, by its early timing, is creating the space for thorough consultation with all the actors, including the social partners. i call on all the actors to take an active part in this and to seize this opportunity.
in writing. i voted against this report because when dealing with the impact of structural reforms, we obviously need to adopt a societal approach. the union's economic policies are also ruthless social indicators for disadvantaged groups. i will give you two recent examples from eurostat: (i) 120 million people one in four europeans are at risk of poverty; (ii) more than one in two disabled people or 40 million europeans is unemployed, which represents a difference of 26% compared to people without disabilities! it is clear that inequalities have increased considerably in recent years within the union as a result of austerity policies and this should of course be mentioned in the european semester report on economic policy coordination. structural measures can no longer help to reduce this human backwardness. we must now invest heavily in job creation and put an end to the socially blind sanitation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the priorities of those who want structural reforms.
in writing. mr president, the european semester was set up to make the europe 2020 objectives a success. in order to lay the foundations for strong and, above all, sustainable growth, we must have the ambition to give the semester not only an economic but also a full-fledged social dimension. this can be done by investing in employment and social protection and by fighting social fraud and dumping. it must remain our ambition that every worker has quality work and social protection. a strong social market economy, based on a full social dialogue, is also the basis for an effective response to the crisis. social investment and structural reform are not mutually exclusive.
in writing. one thing is very clear about the european semester: the need for a social and binding component. in order to achieve the objectives of poverty reduction, combating inequality and unemployment set out in the europe 2020 strategy, member states should be encouraged to make a contribution. the european semester, with its exclusive focus on binding macroeconomic indicators, does not currently do so. member states that score well in macroeconomic terms but have high levels of (children's) poverty or inequality are considered 'good' pupils, while member states that can report worse macroeconomic performance but make efforts and achieve results in child poverty, employment for target groups, inequality, women's participation in the labour market, etc. score poorly in the european semester. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. so my plea is simple and clear: it is also important to ensure that the social indicators are aligned with the macroeconomic indicators. this is an important step towards the social union which the citizens are so eager to see.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon led to a corresponding adjustment in the area of trade policy to the comitology and ad hoc decision-making procedures which had been in force until then. these have been adapted to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. this was done by omnibus i (implementing acts) and omnibus ii (delegated acts) amending several regulations in the field of trade, including regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. in the course of these adjustments, the commission identified a number of errors which should be corrected. it was considered necessary to convert the codification into a new version to take account of some changes in content. this is very welcome.
in writing. ‒ this is the codification and recasting of the regulation on the common rules for imports from certain third countries. this exercise enabled the commission to correct a number of technical errors and the main change in the recast concerns the updating of the annex to the regulation, from which the countries which have become wto members in the meantime, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed.
in writing. this initiative was welcomed as it simplifies and clarifies council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 establishing common rules for imports, which had previously been subject to many substantial amendments. the new legislation is now more legible and accessible to the citizen, without any real change in its content. this decision will therefore have no impact on the currently applicable regime.
in writing. ‒ this relatively technical proposal aims to codify an existing regulation on the common rules applicable to imports of textile products from certain third countries which are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific import arrangements of the union. at present, belarus and north korea are the only countries from which the european union imports textiles that are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other specific arrangements, including the generalised system of preferences (gsp) or the everything but arms (eba) initiative. the regulation, which has already been amended several times, now provides for the imposition of import restrictions (quotas) on these two countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we have managed to introduce safeguard and surveillance clauses for certain imports, including coal and steel, but not for textiles, which are subject to a separate regulation. in addition, the regulation under examination applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. in practice, the safeguard clause is rarely invoked. as regards the monitoring clause, the last measure concerned steel products and expired on 31 december 2012.
in writing. ‒ this is a codification without substantive amendments to the acts concerned, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal lays down certain procedures for adopting specific modalities for the implementation of certain provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro. the latter provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union at reduced customs rates within the limits of the tariff quotas. it is therefore necessary to lay down provisions governing the management of those tariff quotas.
in writing. i approve the adoption of this text to codify regulation no 140/2008 concerning certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro. this codification is representative of the european parliament's efforts to improve the clarity and transparency of the law for citizens.
in writing. ‒ we adopted yesterday this report which encourages the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results, 'in particular in the areas of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption'. the opportunity to remind once again how much rule of law reforms are at the heart of the integration process. the text of the resolution stated that 'political will remains crucial for achieving significant and lasting progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime, which is the main indicator of the independence, efficiency and professionalism of the judicial system'. not to mention the progress in the reform of public administration, freedom of speech and the media, and the long-term economic reforms that remain necessary... finally, we stressed our concern at the deep polarization of the country, which is reflected in a partial boycott of the main opposition party, and therefore called on all political forces to focus on the country's accession process to the european union and to establish a lasting dialogue and constructive cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and i trusted the experts in my political group on this matter.
in writing. ‒ of all the progress reports from the balkan countries discussed during this part-session, the most problematic is the evolution in montenegro in 2014. the country is a serious violator of press freedom (montenegro ranks 114th out of 180 in terms of press freedom), corruption is rife and an objective and impartial government is largely absent. if this country ever joins the eu, it will be thanks to the pressure of the european commission to bring about the necessary reforms.
in writing. ‒ this is a pure codification without any change in the content of the acts concerned, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the aim here is to codify the regulation of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and mes­tel and for bran, germ and other residues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for soils, dressings and other residues. as a representative of the people in the fields of consumer protection and agriculture, i thought it important that the vote on this report should be in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is a pure codification without any change in the content of the acts concerned, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i regret the comments made by the extremist elected representatives in the debate on this matter; the fact that these issues are turned into a racist polemic is harmful to the record and the image of europe.
in writing. ‒ this is a pure codification without any change in the content of the acts concerned, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i can only deplore the words of several extremist elected officials who still manage to peddle their racist messages on these issues, discrediting the european project.
in writing. ‒ a procedure to amend the text establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was initiated in 2013 following a 2011 report which considered that the objectives and functions of the gfcm needed to be clarified and thus strengthened. the aim of this vote by the european parliament was to approve the amended agreement. the new agreement sets a clear overall objective of ensuring the biologically, socially, economically and environmentally sustainable use of marine biological resources. it also provides for sanctions.
in writing. ‒ this report formally endorses the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation whose role is to promote the development, conservation, sound management and enhancement of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. the procedure to amend the text of the agreement establishing the gfcm was launched in 2013 following a performance review carried out in 2011. the main changes introduced are: a clearer explanation of the object of the agreement establishing the gfcm, in order to define what would be a sustainable use of marine biological resources from the biological, social, economic and environmental point of view; better definition of the functions of the gfcm, including the promotion of common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing zones with regulated access, and the collection and dissemination of data, as well as sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, taking into account the mutual interest in the development and good use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources in the application area and the protection of the marine ecosystems that host these resources play a key role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr theodoros zagorakis' immunity, so that the greek judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, with regard to the possible sanction of an alleged offence, the prosecution being initiated not with the aim of harming the political career of the member concerned, but to shed light on a case of beatings and injuries that occurred in 2010 in the paok club stadium in thessaloniki, of which mr zagorakis is the president.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country against the facts of which he is accused.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr sergei stanishev's immunity so that the bulgarian judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the prosecution is not aimed at damaging the political career of the member concerned, but at shedding light on the transmission of documents containing information constituting state secrets when mr stanishev was prime minister of bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting mr stanishev's immunity so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country against the facts alleged against him.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect and a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and jobs across the union. it has a positive effect on citizens and thus facilitates the implementation of projects and programmes. however, it is impossible to carry out the tasks if the eu's credibility, justice and solidity are called into question. the europe 2020 strategy needs to be put back on track for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. unemployment, especially youth unemployment, must be combated. cross-border transport needs to be promoted so that europe can benefit from the diverse skills of its citizens and improve their educational and employment opportunities so that the next generations can use this transport without problems. however, continuous improvements are needed to maximise the 2016 budget in a wide range of areas.
in writing. ‒ the main points of these guidelines as regards the s&d group are job creation, the fight against youth unemployment through the financing of the youth employment initiative for 2016, the implementation of the investment plan, asylum and migration policy, research policy, and the full implementation of the discharge plan decided at the end of the 2015 budgetary procedure to end the payments crisis to enable the union to fulfil its legal obligations in respect of third parties.
in writing. ‒ i believe that investment needs to be prioritised if we are to boost growth and jobs in europe. i believe that we are in a favourable moment, since three complementary measures will combine their positive effects in 2016: 1. quantitative easing plan of the ecb: €60 billion per month can be shifted from sovereign bonds to productive assets. in total, a flow of eur 1 140 billion will be released for growth and jobs. 2. the the juncker plan and its €315 billion: it will reach its cruising speed in 2016. i would like to stress that the eu budget will have to make available the 8 billion euro needed to provide the guarantee. the union budget: this budget is primarily an investment budget. as such, it must also stimulate research and innovation. and in 2016, the approved operational programmes will be effectively in the process of being implemented, with their positive effects on growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ our first focus should be: take measures to increase competitiveness, growth and jobs. we can therefore agree with the important elements in this report which deal with this. all this does not mean, however, that the eu's budget should be increased or that the eu's own resources should be reviewed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the year 2000. this requires an overarching vision and debate and will therefore need to be given wide attention in the discussion of the efsi.
in writing. the 2016 budget set its guidelines: to foster growth by supporting job creation, business and entrepreneurship, to show solidarity both within the union and towards third countries, and to put european finances in order by tackling arrears and reforming the union's revenue system. the commission will have to present a plan to reduce the backlog of payments, which is constantly increasing. it is time for a thorough reform of the union's own resources. we give our full support to the efforts of the monti group.
in writing. ‒ growth, solidarity and paying the bills are the three priorities set out by the european parliament in its political guidelines for the 2016 budget. it is a response to the new european situation set in motion by the juncker commission, which wants to act in the areas essential for europe's future: investment, recovery and job creation. two points seem very important to me: - to focus on the 20 million smes, which represent 99% of enterprises in the european union, and to create the conditions for them to become the main job creators again; - to remedy the slow take-off of the european youth employment initiative. the release of €1 billion proposed by the belgian employment commissioner is therefore welcome. solidarity is the other strong point of the resolution adopted this afternoon: economic solidarity by maximising the use of the structural funds (33% of the european budget) and by reducing regional disparities. humanitarian solidarity also means that the burden of migration flows should be better distributed among the countries of the union. finally, it is essential to reduce arrears, which reached eur 24.7 billion at the end of 2014: paying your creditors is as important as cleaning up your public finances!
in writing. ‒ encouraging growth by supporting job creation, businesses and entrepreneurship, showing solidarity both within the union and towards third countries and... tackling payment arrears and reforming the union's own resources system: these are the priorities adopted by the european parliament yesterday by a large majority (484 votes in favour, 188 against and 36 abstentions) for the negotiations on the 2016 budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we also reiterated our commitment to hold at least three interinstitutional meetings on payments this year. because... at the end of 2014, the amount of unpaid invoices had reached eur 24.7 billion for the cohesion programmes for the period 2007-2013 alone. finally, we have advocated - once again - a thorough reform of the european union's financing system. the ball is now in the commission's court, which is due to present its draft budget for 2016 by the end of may.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the union budget should be the backbone of this investment plan by providing the necessary guarantee fund of eur 8 billion in commitments and payments to provide the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). we are told that the contribution from the union budget should be cost-effective because of a strong leverage effect. i long to believe that, but i remain vigilant. i therefore confirm our willingness to examine with the greatest care how the financial commitments of the european union to the eib for the establishment of the efsi are entered in the union budget!
‒ the european parliament put forward three main themes in its political approach to the 2016 budget: the commission has already made a number of proposals. one point in this budget also seems to me extremely important, namely the 20 million euro allocated to smes. smes in the european union are the largest enterprises and the largest creators of employment. on the other hand, it is of great importance that the 2014 backlog in invoice payments by the eu (estimated at eur 24,7 billion) is addressed as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the report clearly shows that the commission has increased its efforts to combat fraud linked to its financial interests, but that the problem persists. in fact, fraud in the spending of money is on the rise. in terms of expenditure, regional development funds are primarily intended for job creation and social welfare for citizens. as mayor of a municipality benefiting from these aids, i can testify to their decisive impact in ensuring a better future for our people. we cannot tolerate the misuse of this aid for a major social purpose! in terms of revenue, fraud, in addition to the loss of resources it represents for the union, can only feed smuggling, international crime and money laundering. we cannot therefore tolerate it. i also think that the fight against corruption is essential. the latest barometer by the ngo transparency international points out that this scourge is raging in the eu. the commission's initiatives can only be encouraged. but also better cooperation between member states, rapid approval of the proposal for a pif directive and the implementation of a european public prosecutor's office, which are part of effective cooperation with olaf and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud is central to the sound management of the union's financial interests. in 2013, the amount of fraud alleged or established directly related to the union budget amounted to eur 309,1 million according to the annual report. a declining total, but behind which there is in fact an increase in the number of cases. if all irregularities are taken into account, fraudulent or not, this amounts to 2.14 billion euros. this is unacceptable for the european parliament, which has chosen to take the bull by the horns by adopting a series of measures to combat fraud: strengthening cooperation between the commission and the member states, combating smuggling, creating a single database for all the irregularities registered, standardising administrative procedures, involving the european parliament in the negotiations on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office and improving the efficiency of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). at a time when everyone at all levels of government is being asked to tighten their belts, it is essential that the financial interests of the union are protected. that is the signal given by the members of the european parliament today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. however, i would like to stress our concern at the threats still facing the union's budget, which are the result both of non-compliance with the rules (non-fraudulent irregularities) and of intentional infringements or criminal acts (fraud). there is a need for closer cooperation between the member states and the commission with a view to adopting appropriate and sufficient measures and means to prevent and rectify non-fraudulent irregularities and to combat fraud.
in writing. ‒ the proposal lays down certain procedures for adopting specific modalities for the implementation of certain provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro. the latter provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union, within the limits of the tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates. it is therefore necessary to lay down provisions governing the management of those tariff quotas.
in writing. the adoption of the monitoring reports by the european parliament is an important step in the process of transposing the acquis communautaire. it gives an overview of the elements brought into line with eu standards and the efforts still to be made to enable accession. the efforts of montenegro, which applied for membership on 15 december 2008 and was granted candidate status almost two years later, make it one of the most advanced states in the accession process.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the countries of the western balkans should stop. these countries need a european perspective, but it must be recognised that serbia, kosovo, montenegro and macedonia do not meet european standards today. the difficult economic and social situation in the european union calls for increased vigilance. the european decision-makers also want to pay much more attention to chapters 23 ('judiciary and fundamental rights') and 24 ('justice, freedom, security'). the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro highlights serious and persistent shortcomings in the country's functioning: lack of respect for press freedom (the country ranks 114th out of 180), rampant corruption and lack of an impartial judicial system. that's a lot for a country that's knocking on europe's door.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. each candidate country is judged on its own merits and on whether future progress will be focused on the effective implementation of the country's reform strategies and action plans. sustained dialogue and constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition are important to make progress in the preparations for accession and to ensure citizens' confidence in the electoral process and in the institutions of the state. all political forces should remain focused on the country's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual follow-up report on macedonia in the context of its application for membership. parliament recalled that the council was preventing the country from moving to the next stage of the accession process because of the unresolved dispute with greece over its name. parliament called on the council, for the ninth time in succession, to set a date for the start of negotiations in order to speed up the reforms linked to the acquis. the european parliament welcomes the electoral reforms and welcomes the advanced level of legislative harmonisation. it was nevertheless extremely concerned about the political and financial pressures which threaten the independence of the media and called for the law against discrimination to be brought into line with the eu acquis, as it does not prohibit discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which has been a candidate country for accession to the european union since 16 december 2005, is the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the acquis communautaire. however, efforts are still needed in many areas, including corruption, the environment, the independence of the judiciary and political stability. the aim is, of course, to encourage the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to continue its progress, but above all to provide it with support to enable it to overcome the political impasse in which it now finds itself.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the countries of the western balkans should stop. these countries need a european perspective, but it must be recognised that serbia, kosovo, montenegro and macedonia do not meet european standards today. in particular, european decision-makers are keen to pay much more attention to chapters 23 ('judiciary and fundamental rights') and 24 ('justice, freedom, security'). as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which was granted candidate status in december 2005, we are aware that the council is preventing it from moving to the next stage of the accession process because of the unresolved name dispute with greece. but other problems remain: the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, and the list is not exhaustive.
in writing. ‒ the resolution voted this afternoon focuses on the latest follow-up report published by the european commission in october 2014 and the conclusions of the european council in december 2014. in its report, the european executive recommended, for the sixth consecutive year, the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the text of the european parliament's resolution expresses some concerns. in particular, the authorities are asked to consolidate the necessary reforms in the areas of media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary. recent events have led to serious accusations between the government and the opposition and further worsened the already tense political situation in the country. the resolution also deplores the lack of political culture and constructive political dialogue and calls for independent investigations and checks to be carried out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. it is sad, even ridiculous, that this is our ninth request to the council to set a date for the start of the accession negotiations without further delay, in order not to break the momentum, to accelerate the reforms linked to the acquis and to strengthen the process of democratisation. it should be noted that the dispute over the country's designation, which is a bilateral issue, cannot constitute an obstacle to the opening of negotiations, although it must be resolved before the end of the accession process. we share the commission's view that the inability of the parties to reach a compromise after almost twenty years of mediated discussions has a direct and negative impact on the european aspirations of the country and its people. we call on both governments to take concrete steps towards the identification of a mutually acceptable solution. let us reiterate once again the importance and the need for a constructive approach to the problems with neighbouring countries on these bilateral issues.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of his mandate, european commission president juncker announced that there would be no enlargement of the union for the first five years. this does not mean, of course, that there will be no further negotiations with the applicant countries, especially since such negotiations can easily drag on for 10 years. the countries of the balkan region (serbia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and montenegro) are still negotiating and are certainly not meeting the european requirements for membership today. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia also faces many problems of corruption, human rights and the rule of law. it is up to the eu to keep up the pressure for reforms so that at some point the country meets the standards and eventually becomes a member of the eu.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the progress serbia has already made, there are still problems in some areas that make eu membership more difficult. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on this subject.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual follow-up report on serbia in the context of its application for membership. the european parliament welcomes the official opening of accession negotiations on 21 january 2014. it welcomed the successful implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. parliament welcomed in particular the participation of serbia in the normalisation process with kosovo. it called on the country to align its foreign policy with that of the european union, including with regard to russia, and encouraged it to cooperate more closely with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. parliament welcomed the political effort to combat corruption but expressed concern at the deterioration of the conditions for the exercise of freedom of expression in serbia.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the countries of the western balkans should stop. these countries need a european perspective, but it must be recognised that serbia, kosovo, montenegro and macedonia do not meet european standards today. in particular, european decision-makers are keen to pay much more attention to chapters 23 ('judiciary and fundamental rights') and 24 ('justice, freedom, security'). as regards serbia, in addition to the normalisation of its relations with kosovo through the agreement of 19 april 2013, significant progress is worth noting, such as the commitment of the new serbian government to the european integration process. but it is clear that serbia needs to make more progress on its priority reform, namely the rule of law, which is at the heart of the eu's enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ in this report, we called yesterday on serbia to redouble its efforts to align its foreign and security policy with that of the european union, including its policy towards russia. in this resolution we regretted in particular that serbia did not align itself, when invited, with the council decisions introducing restrictive measures against moscow, even though serbia is in a position to play a very important role in eu-russia relations. we have also called for progress in systemic and socioeconomic reforms in belgrade, as well as in its judicial system and the rule of law. we also called for the opening of negotiating chapters to take account of developments in the technical and political climate of relations between serbia and the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the opening of negotiating chapters as soon as possible, taking into account developments in the technical and political climate of relations between serbia and the european union, is in the very dna of europe.
in writing. ‒ it is natural that my interest in kosovo has led me to follow developments in serbia closely. like kosovo, serbia has a long-term prospect of eventual eu membership. the resumption of talks with kosovo has already removed one major obstacle to this rapprochement with the eu. but like kosovo, serbia, which has already made a significant progress in reform, should also pay more attention to restoring the rule of law. the eu will pay more attention to reforms in the areas of the judiciary, human rights, justice and security. i therefore fully support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the participation in the fight against terrorism and the progress made in gender equality and women's rights. it also noted that progress had been made towards meeting the requirements of the visa liberalisation roadmap.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the constitution of a parliament and the appointment of a government, which mark the end of a six-month political impasse, but is concerned about the possible impact of the appointment of people with a troubled past. the new government will have to strengthen the rule of law, as well as fight against corruption, unemployment and organised crime. parliament stressed that the establishment of the special tribunal, as well as cooperation with it, should be a priority and would enable kosovo to face its past.
i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the integration process of kosovo, which is part of the european union's actions in the region. the latter is working to normalize relations between kosovo and its neighbours. i also support the european parliament's call for a thorough and complete investigation into the recent allegations of corruption within the eulex mission.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the countries of the western balkans should stop. these countries need a european perspective, but it must be recognised that serbia, kosovo, montenegro and macedonia do not meet european standards today. in kosovo in particular, the economic and social situation is very serious: unemployment is 35%, with over 55% of the youth unemployed, and corruption is widespread at all levels of society. with no prospects, between 30,000 and 50,000 kosovars have left the country in the past two months, an exodus unseen since the 1999 war. the european union must therefore make it a priority to help the kosovars to build a future in their own country.
in writing. ‒ we voted yesterday on a resolution calling on the council to adopt 'as soon as possible, and no later than mid-2015' the decision to sign and conclude the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo, an agreement initialled in july 2014. the text of the resolution stresses that this decision would provide 'a powerful incentive to implement and institutionalise reforms' and that the agreement would give kosovo 'new opportunities to strengthen its relations with its neighbours and to contribute to the stabilisation of the region'. we also welcomed the appointment of a new government and called on it to implement reforms, including the strengthening and consolidation of the rule of law, the establishment of a judicial system based on the principles of independence, professionalism and efficiency, the systematic and effective fight against corruption and organised crime, and economic and social reforms. in addition, we have once again encouraged spain, greece, cyprus, romania and slovakia, which have not yet recognised kosovo, to do so, believing that this would contribute a little more to the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in this connection, i would like to point out that kosovo cooperates very closely with the various member states, including in the area of asylum, with regard to unfounded and even abusive requests, through dissuasion campaigns. kosovo is the last country in the balkans whose citizens need a visa to travel to the schengen area. i have asked the commission for a clear position on this.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur, i coordinated the position of the liberal group on this dossier. the european integration process in kosovo has been relaunched after several months of stagnation. kosovo and serbia have resumed their talks and kosovo is gradually moving towards the european union again. there is still much work to be done in fighting corruption, improving the rule of law and building a viable economy. i am glad, also on behalf of my group, that progress is being made and have supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the promotion of investment, the acceleration of structural reforms and the pursuit of responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. i support the commission's proposals to improve the european semester by streamlining existing procedures, including the timetable, and strengthening competitiveness and the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which advocates structural reforms without taking into account the social impact on european citizens. it is clear that the member states must make budgetary efforts, but these must not be made without continuing to make productive investments and without guaranteeing sustainable jobs.
in writing. – the european semester – ags growth survey 2015 is extremely important for europe as a tool for economic policy coordination and governance. i voted in favour because i believe a good balance has been achieved. at macro level the report reflects my position on the need for structural reforms in the eu, the modernisation of economies and the continuation of fiscal consolidation. it also calls for the tax burden on labour to be reduced and for wages to be brought into line with productivity. another important position cautioning against protectionist tendencies and restriction of the four freedoms has been adopted as well. the report furthermore recognises that the investment gap can be bridged by targeting significantly higher levels of investments in private companies and in european business. it promotes a well-functioning financial system where increased stability and existing cross border institutions can facilitate liquidity and market making, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. last but not least, it highlights the fact that the member states and the commission have not yet delivered on their commitment to complete the single market, especially the single market for services and the digital economy. this is what i believe our priority must be next.
in writing. the european union is frantically trying to emerge from a major crisis, trying to consolidate a fragile recovery with the aim of supporting growth and employment. the three-pillar approach (investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal consolidation) is the right way forward to achieve these objectives. the european semester, which was introduced in 2010, sets up an annual cycle for economic policy coordination, including a detailed analysis of the fiscal, macroeconomic and structural reform plans of individual member states.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted yesterday on three reports setting out our position on the budgetary process of the european semester in preparation for the spring european council, which will mark an intermediate stage in the definition of the union's socioeconomic policies. the approach in this report to the european commission's annual growth survey 2015 is based on the following triptych: boosting investment in key sectors (infrastructure, education and research), pursuing structural reforms and maintaining fiscal responsibility.
in writing. ‒ we in the belgian delegation rejected the text en masse. we cannot accept that the individual is perceived as a machine to work, without rights!
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the need to fight for decent jobs and against youth unemployment. it also stressed that professional mobility should be voluntary and not subject to economic pressure. it stresses the need to introduce a minimum income throughout europe in order to limit the social dumping we are experiencing today. in the field of taxation, the emphasis is on the transition from a taxation of labour to a taxation of capital. these principles seem to me to be essential to be respected in the light of the economic crisis europe is currently going through, and that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the european semester - ags growth survey 2015 is extremely important for europe as a tool for economic policy coordination and governance. i abstained from voting on the empl opinion because it weakens the focus of the report and has some fundamental flaws in some of its assumptions. like empl i am opposed to any form of tax evasion or dumping. however, it is inappropriate to suggest implementing a tax on financial transactions in order to finance public investment for growth and quality jobs. the suggestion to exclude productive investments in education, research and development from the deficit targets increases the scope of 'flexibility' rules. it is also incorrect to suggest that minimum wages at european level will lead to a recovering and productive economy. in fact, some member states need lower minimum wages as a competitive advantage, as without that there is no growth in production.
in writing. quality education leads to a skilled european workforce to face international competition. young people are the most mobile assets in the european union. we must ensure that they are integrated into the labour market in order to ensure that their future is as good as their expectations. meeting this challenge requires more investment in education and training budgets (1/5 of 20-24 year olds have not completed upper secondary education) and better information flow in synergy with the world of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my colleague mr gutiérrez. we must be aware of the link between fiscal responsibility and the need to increase investment and structural reforms in the member states, in the context of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ a pillar of the european semester will be devoted to strengthening the governance of the single market. this pillar should be based on a defined set of priorities related to the real economy and key growth sectors. this report focuses on several aspects, namely: - the consolidation of the governance of the internal market through growth-enhancing assessment criteria; - the need to use the 'internal market' pillar of the semester to link indicators to growth and job creation, particularly in the digital market; - the need to have an investment strategy with a more competitive single market; - the compatibility of trade and investment agreements with the key factors of the single market relating to social, environmental and consumer protection standards; - the fight against tax fraud and evasion and the improvement of tax coordination...
in writing. improving the governance of the single market by developing a set of analytical tools that would better measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market under the pillar of the european semester dedicated to it. the single market is one of the main drivers of growth and job creation. finally, in order to promote and effectively contribute to economic recovery, the proper implementation and enforcement of governance rules is becoming increasingly important. good governance means sharing, explaining the nature of european issues, explaining corporate projects and, above all, producing results. it is also a question of promoting common policies to combat unemployment and creating sustainable growth potential in order to restore the cohesion of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report we adopted reiterates and puts at the forefront the parliament's call for a single market pillar to be defined in the european semester, in order to better support the real economy and stimulate growth and job creation. the report also focuses on the digital single market, the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, and the consumer protection acquis, which it identifies as key elements with the highest growth potential. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - i work for the internal market commission. i would like to remind you that the single market is an essential component of the union's competitiveness and its greatest economic strength. this market of 500 million people gives the european union the opportunity to be the world's leading economic power. it offers businesses across the continent a 'home' market in which to sell their products and services, attracts investment from around the world and is the gateway for european trade with distant markets. the crisis has shown that the european union needs to act to improve its economic model and strengthen its competitiveness, which requires a combination of sound public finances, structural reforms and targeted investment. europe 2020 is the union's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market has a crucial role to play in this regard. however, the potential of the single market is not being fully exploited at present. the european union must encourage member states to increase their crossborder trade in services and must take urgent measures to adapt to the evolution of digital technologies!
in writing. ‒ children are the most vulnerable group in our society today and should be protected the most. the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children constitute serious violations of fundamental rights which must be further combated. the present motion for a resolution is undoubtedly correct and important.
in writing. ‒ it is our responsibility to protect and ensure a safe environment for children and their development, including on the internet, and in cooperation with all relevant levels of government in and beyond the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament has taken a concrete initiative to combat child pornography on the internet. i voted in favour of this text because it covers a large number of aspects of prime importance: rapid removal of illegal content, reporting to the law enforcement services of the member states, measures to combat online child-harassment, etc. i welcome the fact that the text strongly advocates a comprehensive approach to the phenomenon and wider collaboration, and that it does not forget to address the situation of victims of online sexual abuse. however, i believe that the resolution could also have included provisions against cyber predators. the manipulation of children on the internet for sexual purposes is not the only example of cyber predation. other forms of manipulation exist for the purpose of committing or having committed a criminal offence, kidnapping, incitement to hatred, suicide or anorexia, terrorist recruitment, misappropriation of personal data, etc. in addition, complementary initiatives could be considered with a view to codifying the status of a minor in cyberspace.
in writing. ‒ the fact is that in the last decade or so, the number of child pornography web sites has exploded, and so have the number of visitors! the latest europol report confirms this, active online pedophiles are increasing in number because they are becoming more difficult to track. new technological developments allow them to share their criminal acts easily and safely. it is in this context that the european parliament this afternoon urged the member states to combat child pornography on the internet effectively. starting with those more than half who have not yet fully transposed the directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. after the dutroux affair in particular, in belgium in particular but also in the four corners of europe, an arsenal of tools has emerged. today, we need to go even further, and new measures at european level are necessary: strengthening mechanisms for reporting and removing illegal content, improving children's education about the dangers of the internet, improving international cooperation (investigations and prosecutions)... because it is our duty to help our children protect themselves against this "deadly web" that the internet has become.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on member states to do more to investigate cases of sexual abuse of children on the internet, prosecute the perpetrators, protect child victims and remove illegal content online. more than 80 percent of the victims of child pornography on the internet are under the age of ten. the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography requires a comprehensive strategy covering the investigation of offences, the prosecution of offenders, the protection of children who are victims and the prevention of the phenomenon. to do this, the law enforcement agencies of the member states and europol must finally have the funds, the human resources, the investigative powers and the technical capacity to seriously and effectively investigate and prosecute offenders! new high-tech capabilities should also be developed to overcome the problems associated with the analysis of large quantities of child pornography images. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that children's personal data are protected and that children are better informed about the risks and consequences of using their personal data online. the current reform of data protection contains specific articles for minors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography, are serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of the child to protection and care for his or her well-being, as enshrined in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union! the rights and protection of children on the internet must be safeguarded and measures must be taken to ensure that illegal content is promptly removed and reported to law enforcement agencies, and that there are sufficient legal instruments to investigate and prosecute offenders.
president, boris nemtsov was one of the main bridge builders between russia and ukraine, one of the few politicians who openly and sharply criticized the authoritarian political climate in putin's russia. he called the conflict in ukraine a painful fratricidal war and a useless confrontation with its european neighbours. he was working on a report on president putin's role in ukraine. this morning we did indeed hear former russian prime minister mikhail kasyanov in the afet committee. he too came to the conclusion: "this was a political assassination". there will be no tolerance for criticism of president putin's role in ukraine. the murder of boris nemtsov is a warning to all other political dissidents in russia. let 's get back to the murder investigation . the involvement of chechens raises questions. that would link nemtsov's murder to his public support for charlie hebdo. chechen strongman kadyrov on monday defended the main suspect in the murder, portraying him as a "true russian patriot" and a "devout muslim" who was shocked by the charlie hebdo cartoons. indeed, nemtsov regularly accused kadyrov of intimidating journalists and in november called for an investigation into the involvement of chechen fighters in eastern ukraine. but no, kasyanov confirmed this morning, he has spoken out against muslims or against islam. on the contrary, he was always a champion of tolerance. the prime suspect is off the hook in this russia. for years, the putin regime has created a climate of distrust and hatred against dissidents. he calls the opposition the "fifth column". meanwhile, the opposition's ultimate fear is becoming reality: the assassins have been arrested, but the people who hired them are still at large. i call on the russian opposition not to be weakened. we, for our part - and i quote again mikhail kasyanov - must make it clear to putin that we will continue to defend and protect our values and will adhere to our democratic principles! (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card reply. i agree with you completely. i couldn't have said it better myself. we do indeed need a unanimous vote, and i ended my speech with that. we must show - and we must do so with one voice - that we are indeed standing by our democratic principles, with respect also for the international legal order. with that clear message, we must also engage in dialogue with putin's russia. we must make that message clear and act on it.
the president, ladies and gentlemen, in your delusion of creating a great european single state, you have now apparently decided to add to the cake of your single state, alongside the single currency, the cherry of a foreign and even military policy. we are slowly shifting the intention here to pursue a foreign policy that is a little less cacophonous towards a militarisation of an essentially civilian european union. as a young man i was a strong atlanticist supporter of nato and i fought side by side with ronald reagan for the deployment of nuclear missiles against the soviet union and against the then dominant leftist and anti-american elite here. but the euro crisis has taught me that the european union's mania for unity is fuelling dangerous contradictions within europe rather than bringing unity and calm. for the same reason, the growing threat of war, i have come to oppose your dangerous delusion of unity in military and foreign policy, which is far too distant from the citizens of europe.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, this report has become a very substantial document, describing a lot of developments. i congratulate the rapporteur. some of the developments are positive. the eu has more and more instruments to implement human rights policy. but sometimes the political will has to be linked to the instruments. in some regions, like south america, we're seeing progress. in other regions, the human rights situation is deteriorating. russia, which we have already discussed at length today, is unfortunately one of those regions. the country has become a strategic challenge. in this context, i would like to focus briefly on the reference in the resolution to the worrying situation in crimea. the tatars are a small but proud people. part of their past is shrouded in mist. the other part is a story of deportations and discrimination. crimea is their homeland. relations between the crimean tatars and the ethnic russians have always been peaceful. but that tolerance is gone. international organisations confirm that crimean tatars and ukrainians are systematically discriminated against. basic civil rights, such as health care and a job, are denied to them if they continue to hold onto their ukrainian passports. the un special envoy for human rights is no longer allowed in crimea. the world is watching the demise of a people, even though we all agree that minorities should be protected globally. the resolution rightly condemns the persecution of religious minorities in the middle east. but let us not forget crimea, a year after the annexation!
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in libya. the following month, we were confronted with the shocking images of the beheading of 21 egyptian copts. since then, is has been consolidating its position and parading brand-new suvs in mediterranean coastal towns. an adviser to the un special envoy for libya, a compatriot of mine, says in a dutch newspaper that "libya has the potential to develop into a crisis many times bigger than syria. from a european perspective, libya is more important than syria. most of the problems with illegal migrants and some problems with muslim extremism can be traced back to the chaos in libya. a thought-provoking consideration! the efforts of the un envoy bernardino leon, offer the only hope. but unfortunately, the country is a hotbed of militias. it makes it extremely convenient for isis to expand its territory. the libyan people do not deserve to be re-hypnotized by a minority that rules with fear and violence. europe, in cooperation with the arab league, must therefore give all possible support to the libyan people. libya does indeed need that unity government, which can only come about if there is an inclusive peace process.
in writing. with the fall of colonel gaddafi in 2011, libya seemed to rise from the ashes. for the first time, free elections were held and the people could express themselves freely. but this was without counting the legacy of the tribal organization of the country, wanted and implemented by gaddafi, since his coup d'état in september 1969. today, the country is mired in total government instability. tripoli in the north and tobruk in the east are fighting for power. if tripoli is under the influence of the muslim brotherhood, tobrouck is a moderate city. beyond the clash between religious and secular, libya is torn between the new elites who recognize themselves in the power of tobrouck and the old ones who swear only by a power emanating from tripoli. the geographical situation of libya is unique. tripoli is much closer to rome than cairo. the question then arises: are not jihadists taking advantage of these nut shells to install bridgeheads on the island of lampedusa? i would like to ask the european commission to finally adopt an official european position on the libyan situation and to remind you that behind our european fears there is also, and above all, a concern for the libyan people.
madam president, in brussels, paris, copenhagen, in museums, in supermarkets, in synagogues, on the streets, in stadiums, in all corners of europe, jews are despised, hated, attacked, killed because they are jews. racism is abhorrent, all racism is reprehensible, let us not misunderstand, but in europe today, the jews are the only europeans to die for what they are. anti-semitism is not the problem of the jewish community, it is a cancer of our society as a whole, a cancer with multiple causes that it would be naive or even perverse to reduce to the conflict in the middle east, in israel alone: who can think for a single second that a solution there would erase a thousand-year-old hatred in us? the anti-semitism of the islamofascists has been shared by all the fascisms of history; the difference is that today, speech and images have a multiplied and globalized effect through the power of the internet. this is the reality we must fight through education - again, always and above all - through awareness raising of the major players on the web and also through strengthening our legislation. not all 28 condemn anti-semitic and racist acts, speeches and parties; there are nazis elected to our parliament, and i think we could start there.
a few minutes ago, mr president, another e-mail arrived from the european syriac union. as we debate this, the assyrian city of tell tamer is under attack by islamic state. the e-mail is a plea for help. and yes, we will again condemn in the strongest terms the brutality of is today, but unfortunately the terrorist group does not mind international rules. their ideology is based on a selective and reprehensible interpretation of islam, eradicating deviant interpretations or other beliefs, including centuries-old religious communities and their heritage such as yazidis, copts, assyrians, etc. but never, never can hate and terror lead to a harmonious society! individuals can be cracked, but not age-old beliefs. so there will be a day when daesh will no longer exist, and it seems to me that it makes sense as an international community to think about the post-isis era. this absolute evil must be tackled in a comprehensive way, militarily, ideologically, culturally and socioeconomically.
mr president, i know you are doing your best. this is my talk on the islamic state. the garbage! this is the one about sudan. the garbage! this is the one on land grabbing in tanzania, which i hope you'll give me a chance to talk about. and i would like us to introduce a new card in this parliament: the 'yellow card', to ban false blue cards, like the one we have seen here, which prevent people from being able to speak on the subject. colleagues who abuse the blue card should be punished first with a warning and then excluded by a "red card" perhaps from the right to ask for blue cards.
mr president, it is believed that the maasai who migrated from south sudan settled in the wild plains of kenya and tanzania in the 15th century. many of these plains have since become safari parks for tourists, threatening the natural wealth of the land and the tranquillity of this people of hunter-gatherers. today, more than ever, the maasai ancestral lands are threatened by the greed and profit-making of the government and the hunting companies. since 2009, burning houses, land grabs and violence have been part of the tribe's daily life. in february 2014, the authorities ordered the serengeti national guard to forcibly evict the population. as a result, in three days, 114 maasai homes were burned to the ground and 2,000 to 3,000 were left homeless. but violence against these ancestral peoples is not tanzania's only problem. there is a wide choice between poverty, unemployment, corruption, inequality and discrimination. it is therefore time to clap our hands to denounce this violence and to defend the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". it is clear that we can always export our good practices. as far as the cadastre is concerned, we owe it to napoleon, whose 200th anniversary of defeat we are celebrating. i know this is a big deal, because in belgium we have a commemorative coin - it's history. our french friends do not like this, but one of napoleon's merits is that he introduced the cadastre and the civil code. it is true that we could export these practices in order to strike a fair balance between the rights of peoples to have their own land and not be driven from it, and to be able to live off their own economy and activities on that land, and other activities which are certainly very interesting, such as the export of natural resources.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the call for an international inquiry into the murder of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet completely resolved. the eu's continued commitment to democratic and fundamental values is commendable.
in writing. ‒ following the assassination of opposition politician boris nemsov and the deterioration of democracy in russia, the european parliament had to condemn the assassination and show solidarity with the russian political opponents. it was also essential to remind the russian federation of its obligations in the field of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights, to which it is a signatory. finally, it is essential that the european union and its member states adopt a firm common position on the current events in both russia and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ anna politkovskaya, alexander litvinenko, stanislav markelov, anastasia baburova, natalia estemirova, sergei magnitsky, boris nemtsov... the list of political murders committed in russia since 1998 is long, it is far too long. the european parliament strongly condemned the assassination of boris nemtsov, a leading figure in the liberal and democratic opposition in russia. he was the voice of opposition to vladimir putin's policies. he had dedicated his life to a more democratic, prosperous and open russia. on february 27, his opponents finally silenced him. they cowardly shot him four times in the back, right next to the kremlin, a symbol. with this suspicious death, it is once again the entire putin regime that is being singled out by the international community. the international community is increasingly concerned about this policy of oppression and intimidation of opposition activists and minorities in neighbouring countries, which disregards human rights without any qualms. it is in this context that the european union has decided to maintain its sanctions against the regime of vladimir putin, but to continue to support the russian people.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we called for an independent international investigation into the assassination of boris nemtsov, a leading opposition figure in russia, in early march. the text of the resolution we voted on deplores that 'the latest developments show that russia is not pursuing a path of healthy democracy, which is characterised by respect for the opposition, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary'. the resolution also calls on the russian authorities "to cease all forms of pressure, repression or intimidation, both political and judicial" against opposition figures, representatives of civil society and independent media, so that they can freely carry out their activities... as well as the immediate release of all political prisoners, including ukrainian pilot nadia savtchenko and estonian police officer eston kohver. finally, we recommended that the council develop a unified policy towards russia which would send a strong common message on the importance of human rights in eu-russia relations and on the need to put an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia.
in writing. we were all outraged by the murder of mr. nemtsov in moscow. no one should die for their freedom of thought and expression. freedom of expression has been stabbed again. he was for values that we all respect and share, opposing war. this is a great loss for democracy in russia. russian citizens have the right to real freedom, real justice, real democracy! i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and co-signed it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the protection of european values and interests and the strengthening of the political and legal system in europe to restore and guarantee peace and stability. the promotion of the security of the member states and their citizens, democratisation, the rule of law and social development in the eu's neighbourhood must be further strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual report of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the report highlights the growing instability in the eu's neighbourhood and stresses the need for the eu to become a credible actor on the international stage. to this end, the union's foreign policy must be based on a common vision of europe's interests, values and objectives. for the union to have a say on the international scene in general and in its neighbourhood in particular, it is crucial that all the policies of the union and its member states be directed in the same direction. consistency is the key if europe is to have a say in the world.
in writing. given the security threats facing the european union on a daily basis and the importance of the good management of foreign policy, a new european strategy is needed in some areas. it is essential to deploy the union's political, economic and financial resources to strengthen the defenses of the member states and to make the common security and defence policy more effective. in addition, the lack of coordination and coherence between the various union policies must be overcome. europe must continue to assert itself globally, notably through greater support for its southern neighbours, but also more generally in the resolution of various global conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. i am in favour of an ambitious and effective union foreign policy, which must be based on a common vision of europe's fundamental interests, values and objectives in external relations and on a common perception of the threats facing the union as a whole. i therefore underline the commitment of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, building on the mandate of the european council of december 2013, to launch as a priority a process of strategic reflection on foreign affairs and security policy, which should involve a wide range of stakeholders, including member states, european institutions and the european population. this reflection should lead to a new european security strategy, developed in the light of recent geopolitical developments, in order to deal with new threats and challenges.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the continued global cooperation in all possible fora for the abolition of the death penalty, as well as the eu's efforts to combat torture and other degrading and inhuman treatment or punishment, especially against women.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses the union's activities in the field of human rights and democracy. as europeans, it is our responsibility to defend and promote these values throughout the world. these values are the basis of our free and democratic societies and of our project of european integration. they must also be central to our foreign policy, because democracy and human rights are universal principles.
in writing. ‒ we adopted yesterday (by 336 votes to 145, with 64 abstentions) the annual report on the european union's common foreign and security policy (cfsp). in summary, the report suggests improving internal working methods and institutional structures, preserving and strengthening the european political and legal order, and strengthening the rules-based world order. in this text we expressed our concern at the lack of coordination and coherence between the union's policies and stressed how financial and budgetary constraints are further restricting europe's influence in the world and its role in the service of regional and global security. the question that was the subject of this report was, of course, how can a foreign policy be credible if it is not based on adequate defence capabilities of the member states and an effective common security and defence policy (csdp)? in view of the current situation, the question is now even more acute and i hope that the summit of heads of state and government on the subject scheduled for june will help to make progress in this area.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament took stock of the situation of human rights and democracy in the world this afternoon. the annual report covers 2013, but the trend is there, violent, with the multiplication of regional conflicts. when we do not fall into outright barbarism, with an increase from 15 to 24 in the number of countries that have been victims of terrorist acts, with more than 50 deaths. what constructive role can the european union play in this global concert where more than half the population still lives under undemocratic regimes? the first step is certainly to speak with one voice and to draw up a common foreign policy in the major spheres of influence on the planet. it is also important to be effective in areas where there is disorder and which serve as a base for terrorism, such as the sahel region and libya in particular. another problem to be highlighted is that the union must act in accordance with its own written rules in the event of a clear violation of human rights by a partner country. the economic price to be paid may be high, but nothing compared to the legitimacy gained from public opinion.
in writing. - sad coincidence of the calendar, this article comes just after the vote on the resolution on the murder of a russian political leader, presumably killed for his ideas. i have of course voted in favour of the report by my distinguished colleague mr panzeri. the union's institutions and member states must put human rights at the heart of the union's relations with all third countries, including its strategic partners, and at the heart of all statements and high-level meetings. as co-chair of the intergroup on sport, i would also like to stress the absurdity of awarding major international sporting events to countries which make a mockery of labour law and where human rights are constantly violated. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european parliament reviews developments and the state of human rights in the world. this report was about the human rights situation in 2013. the number of countries that suffered terrorist attacks that killed more than 50 people that year rose from 15 to 24 - not a hopeful finding. this report makes it clear every year that the european union will have to do more to combat these human rights violations. the european union must urgently speak with one voice and draw the line on the protection of human rights, even if this may cause us economic damage.
in writing. ‒ as terrorism knows no borders, cooperation between the eu and the league of arab states is an important step in the global fight against terrorism. such an initiative is very commendable.
in writing. ‒ given the transnational nature of the terrorist threat, it is essential that as many states and international organisations as possible cooperate to combat this threat and thus ensure peace and stability in the world. that is why i voted in favour of the strategic dialogue between the european union and the league of arab states. the two entities have a common interest in finding lasting solutions to the problems of terrorism and jihadism. however, as the document stresses, it is imperative that this cooperation between the union and the league of arab states be transparent. it is indeed necessary to be able to exercise democratic and judicial control over this cooperation.
in writing. i welcomed the adoption of this resolution which underlines the importance of cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism. terrorism, which affects the entire international community, must be fought in concert with the states of origin. the main objective is to identify and combat the factors that lead to radicalisation, such as poverty, discrimination, corruption, etc. the resolution also recognises the importance of the balance between freedom and security in order to preserve the values that are ours. it reaffirms the need for the member states of the league of arab states in particular to work towards the recognition and respect of fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am in principle in favour of all cooperation and partnership between the european union and third countries aimed at combating terrorism and working together with regional actors such as the african union, the gulf cooperation council and the league of arab states, as well as with the united nations, and in particular its counter-terrorism committee. i would like to remind you, however, that counter-terrorism measures should not be misused to suppress legitimate voices of protest or to infringe the universal fundamental rights of citizens.
in writing. ‒ given the worrying state of bar stocks and their high economic value, it is essential that the european union takes measures to bring the stock population to a level that allows maximum sustainable yield. such measures are necessary both for the biodiversity of our oceans and for the prosperity of our fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ what prompted meps to discuss and vote on the sustainable operation of the bar on thursday? a delicious fish, it is found in all corners of europe, from the north sea to the bay of biscay, and inland waters of the iberian peninsula and ireland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as we go up the stream that allowed the bar to make its way to the plenary, we recognize the excellent work of the fisheries commission and its members, who have alerted the public to the danger to this species. the bar is the new trend. so much so that the world's stock of this fish has declined by 32 percent in the last five years. this worrying decline has prompted the commission to ban pelagic trawl fisheries for cod until 30 april 2015 in most european seas. the alarm signal sounded by the european parliament this afternoon is a good one. because of the failure to do so in time, the wild cod is in danger of extinction in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ given the worrying state of the stock of blue ling in european waters (it has been declining sharply since 2012...), we adopted on thursday 12 march a resolution calling for the establishment of a management plan to manage blue ling fishing activities. the resolution endorses the proposal for a regulation published by the european commission on 26 january which prohibits, until the end of april 2015, vessels fishing with pelagic trawls from keeping, transferring, transhipping and landing rods. for the period after 2015, the measures to manage the bar stocks are still under discussion... the text adopted in plenary also stresses the importance of evaluating various management measures relating to commercial fisheries, in particular the establishment of a tac (total allowable catch) a measure already proposed by the european commission a few years ago. but since the member states have still not been able to agree on the allocation of quotas between them, discussions will shortly be resumed between the council and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we believe that measures to manage the fishing activities of the barred-fish must be taken at european level if this species is to be saved. the commission should propose a multiannual management plan for bluefin tuna in order to increase the stock population above levels that can achieve maximum sustainable yield. it is important to involve professional and recreational fishermen and advisory councils in the development of such a plan.
in writing. ‒ given the universality of human rights and the importance of human rights in the integration process and in the external policies of the european union, it is only right that we support all international bodies aimed at promoting and enforcing respect for human rights in the world.
in writing. i support the joint resolution adopted by the european parliament on the priorities set by the european union in 2015 for the un human rights council. the issues identified in it represent why the union is working on human rights, including women's rights, lgbti rights, civil and political rights, economic and social rights, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. however, it should be noted that the continued harassment and detention of human rights defenders and opposition figures by a number of members of the human rights council undermines the credibility of the council. parliament reiterated that the members of the human rights council should be elected from amongst those states which respect human rights, the rule of law and democracy and which have agreed to send standing invitations to all special procedures. parliament urged the member states to promote and adopt human rights performance criteria which should apply to all states before they can be elected as members of the human rights council.
in writing. ‒ the increasingly tense political situation in venezuela, the recent arrests of the mayor of caracas and the opposition leader, as well as the sometimes violent repression of peaceful protests, raise questions about the future of stability and peace in the country. the european parliament had to react and show its commitment to the rule of law and democratic values. we also welcome all peaceful means of resolving the conflict and that is why we support the proposal for mediation put forward by unasur.
in writing. ‒ on february 19, 2015, antonio ledezma, the mayor of caracas and a leading venezuelan opposition figure, was arrested without a warrant by officers of sebin, the national intelligence service (political police), and then detained in a military prison without any form of trial, without any evidence indicating his guilt in any offence. on february 24, 2015, 14-year-old kluivert roa was shot dead while participating in a peaceful protest over food and medicine shortages in san cristobal. two of the many facts that show that the heirs of chavez have kept his formula: oppression, intimidation, violent repression, imprisonment... this afternoon the european parliament called on the venezuelan government to get back on the road to genuine democracy. one that does not silence opposition by force, does not violate freedom of expression and demonstration, does not censor all forms of media and respects the separation of powers. the eu is therefore reaffirming its full support for one of the poorest populations in latin america, which is living in a country with the resources to be one of the richest.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing a political crisis, as well as an unprecedented economic crisis (linked to the sharp drop in oil prices, which severely impair the budgetary situation of a country whose revenues are almost entirely dependent on oil exports, and an inflation rate of around 70%). the text of the resolution adopted today condemns the use of violence against opponents of the current government and calls on the venezuelan authorities to release immediately several of them, including antonio ledezma, the mayor of caracas. the resolution stresses that "the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition" and "the censorship of the media" must be brought to an end. the european commission and the council of the european union were also invited to adopt 'all necessary measures to safeguard european interests and the principle of legal certainty for european companies in venezuela'. the european parliament, 'deeply concerned' by 'the deterioration' of the situation in venezuela, called for a delegation of meps to be sent to the country to establish a dialogue with all the parties.
in writing. - i signed in favor of the resolution. i am deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation in venezuela and condemn the use of violence against demonstrators. we therefore call on the venezuelan authorities to immediately release antonio ledezma, leopoldo lópez, daniel ceballos and all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and their fundamental rights, in accordance with the demands made by several un and other international organizations.
mr president, i want to raise a question and ask for a change to today’s agenda, more precisely in relation to the vote on the report on the request to lift the immunity of mr uspaskich. i would ask you to refer this back to the committee on legal affairs (juri). each of us will have received today or yesterday ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, each of us has received an email from our colleague mr uspaskich. he sent the message out yesterday and he repeated this letter today with more content and more information. i would like to give you my input on this. i think there is one principle that is applicable in our house, and that is the right of all of our members to be treated equally and fairly. i have serious doubts about this in relation to the report on mr uspaskich. we have to be 100% sure, in the case of mr uspaskich, that there is no fumus persecutionis, to use the latin term, i.e. that a case has not been mounted against him in order to eliminate him and his party from the political stage in his country. i have to tell you that i have serious doubts about this – doubts that have not, unfortunately, been removed by the report that is on our agenda today. there are many bizarre elements coinciding in this case. first of all, a change in the original charges, a change from an administrative fine to not less than four years’ imprisonment – and that two days before an election! a falsified tax declaration – because it now seems that the signature on this paper is not his signature. and then perhaps the most important thing: the revelation in wikileaks that the highest authorities in the country want to hound mr uspaskich out of politics. the fact that he is a european of russian origin does not mean that this is allowed, or that his freedom of movement can be limited, preventing him from participating in the election campaign. on top of all this – and i want to conclude here – the committee on legal affairs (juri) has also decided that there could be restriction of his personal freedoms. i have here, by way of example, the decision taken in the case of mr severin, who was pursued for corruption, and in his case there was never a decision to restrict his ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, my request is very simple, if you see the difference in treatment, for example, between mr uspaskich and mr severin, if you see the different elements in the dossier. i am not asking that the plenary should say that mr uspaskich is not guilty. what i am asking is for the case to be referred, for a short period, from plenary back to the committee on legal affairs, so that the committee can respond to the doubts we have, and secondly so that they can also exclude ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am sorry but i have here rule 188, which says in paragraph 2 that in a case where the political group is asking for referral back to committee you have to put it to the vote immediately. i do not know if you understand the word ‘immediately’, but in dutch it means ‘onmiddellijk’ – instantly, directly, now, within a nanosecond – and not at the end of the debate.
mr president, what you are saying now is in contradiction with paragraph 1 of rule 188, which says it is before the agenda is fixed. we are now fixing the agenda and i ask you to refer this back to the committee.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to speak in particular about energy policy and also about investment policy. i think you were a little short-sighted when you spoke about the energy union and the decisions on it. i would like to congratulate you on the decisions you have taken on the energy union. - why? - why? because the strength of the energy union under the inspired leadership of vice-president šefčovič lies in the overall approach. not just energy security, not just climate - however important - not just energy poverty or the energy needs of our industry, but the overall approach. if we look at that picture, we actually know what is needed. we know, and the energy union says so, that we must move towards a low-carbon economy. that sounds very logical and we may agree in theory, but it is still a theoretical concept. we must be careful, because there was a time when we, especially in europe, were at the forefront of new technology, renewable energy and even energy efficiency. but we are losing that leadership role. there are other economies and regions in the world that are taking that on. we must therefore focus on security and the big picture. why don't we do that? why don't we invest in that energy efficiency and that renewable energy? because we have 28 different types of policies, with an energy mix here and an energy mix there, with no clear picture of where we need to go. that is the power of the energy union and that is where you have to set priorities. one of those priorities, which is again clearly stated in the energy union, is energy efficiency, because it is precisely this that completes the picture. energy efficiency creates jobs, ensures we meet our climate goals and makes our industries the most energy efficient industries. but we must be careful not to stick to theory. and then i'll get to the investment plan. you have broad support - and i am now addressing the president of the commission - from parliament for that plan. we want more investment. the energy union is one of the pillars underlying this, one of the frameworks that determines where investment should be made. we agree with that, but we are also a little embarrassed by the european parliament's position, and mr grossetête has rightly said so: another pillar of the energy union is research and development. without research and development, we're not gonna make it. and so we cannot accept that funding is coming from horizon 2020 and we have to find a good compromise. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. madam president, that is not a dogma, that is an absolute objective on which i hope we can agree. i would like to say something about eastern europe, because i think we should pay attention to it. we cannot say overnight that we are done with coal and eventually with gas, even though that is the ultimate objective if we are to take our climate responsibility. transition is the word. you must ensure that you provide resources and know-how in eastern europe to make industry as energy-efficient as possible. i'm gonna need something from the heart. if we look at the proposals submitted in the pipeline of projects in the investment plan, we see almost no energy efficiency projects from eastern europe. let us make energy-efficient businesses a top priority in eastern europe too!
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like mr kamall to note that i belong to a pro-european group but i have never been invited to a dinner by ... actually it was not a dinner, it was a lunch! there is a difference, mr timmermans. so next time you will be paying for the dinner with the liberal group. mr kamall, you are right about the vat on small companies who have apps on the internet. it is ridiculous that we are now starting this vat system. we could at least exclude the small businesses from that. i know that mr ansip, who is responsible for the digital agenda, had the idea of putting it on the agenda of the college the next time they discuss the digital agenda. having said that, mr tusk, i completely deplore the fact that you have organised a meeting on greece with a limited format. what type of union is this? greece concerns all the countries of the european union and at least all the countries of the eurozone and it should not be allowed that there are separate and limited meetings of a number of countries about it. i do not think that this is at all acceptable. it is against the interest of the union and against the interest of the eurozone to do this. (applause)i know there is always pressure. i had the same thing, i remember, and certainly jean-claude had also, in ghent. do you remember that, jean-claude? the big countries wanted a meeting – i think it was france, germany and britain – about afghanistan after 9/11. they had a separate meeting and they asked me – i was president of the council – for a separate room. i found the dirtiest room in ghent to give them for their meeting. the meeting lasted only five minutes. it was so dark in that room that they came out after five minutes and joined the meeting of the whole european council. so i deplore this. do not do it. it sends a bad signal to everybody. i have a number of very short questions. what was decided on greece? we do not know what has been decided on greece. when are they coming forward with their package of structural reforms, because that is the starting point of every exercise on greece? secondly, what is the decision on russia? we need a proactive line – we already have a debate on this. have the sanctions been deepened if russia and mr putin go further? and has a positive package also been decided? i mean a positive package for young people, young students and researchers. we need to liberalise to make it easier for them to have visas to our countries. on the energy union, i think ms van brempt is quite right that decisions on interconnection require a leading role for the commission. if no decision is made by the member states to give a leading role to the commission to lead the negotiations about energy agreements and interconnections investments, we do not have a real energy union. finally, i am very disappointed that you did not take a decision on roaming charges and that you continue with this bad decision. regarding digital, we are still living in the 20th century and not in the 21st century in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– (inaudible as microphone not switched on) ... that is the first point. the second point and the most important is that it is the intention of the college – from what i have understood – to make an exception for all small and medium-sized companies which are active with apps on the internet. that is the best way forward and that is also the reason why i said to mr tusk that he has to review this bad decision about roaming charges because that also affects that same digital union. let us not spend time on the bad decisions of the past. for me what is important is that the commission is now back on the right track.
fiscal competition between member states is healthy and desirable, but there can be no real competition unless the rules of the game are fixed and are equal and transparent for all participants. the tax transparency package now being proposed by the commission is an important first step and is already bringing tax rulings out of the shadows. but i expect more. clear rules of the game, but also equal weapons. so we need to take the outrage around luxleaks and swissleaks and finally move towards a ccctb. the fact that a single corporate tax base makes tax evasion particularly difficult. competition between member states remains possible, for example in the field of tariffs, but with an open mind. we all know, ladies and gentlemen, where this file is, and i support the commission's intention to unblock the ccctb. but is it not time to put this matter on the table of the heads of government? as a young person, i do not want a europe of big words and big values. my generation wants a europe of action above all.
in writing. the commission presented its 'tax package', which aims to make european taxation more transparent. one of the key measures of this initiative is the introduction of automatic exchange of information between the member states of the european union. if we succeed in getting this measure passed, it will be a vital tool in the fight against tax evasion. i would like to remind you that tax evasion costs the member states €1 000 billion a year. the 50 largest european companies have registered a fifth of their subsidiaries in tax havens. billions of euros are hidden and do not go back into the coffers of the states where these companies make profits. a political response is therefore crucial to tackling this problem. for socialists, taxation is just when it is equitably distributed to enable society to make investments that serve the community: roads, schools, hospitals, etc. moreover, when this tax is levied mainly on the backs of the workers while speculators and the big fortunes do not participate sufficiently in the collective effort, this is problematic. i would like to conclude by saying that this is a satisfactory first step but that further steps are still needed.
in writing. commissioner, the european parliament must send a strong political message in favour of immediate measures for tax transparency and taxation combined with social justice. i am glad that this report lays the foundations for future parliamentary work on this matter, such as the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base for european companies and the strengthening of the transparency of tax returns. however, the member states and the commission also need to play an even more prominent role in the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax optimisation. of course, i welcome the publication of the tax transparency package by the european commission on 18 march. i would, however, call for other effective proposals to be put forward in the coming months to intensify the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. for example, the commission should establish, by july 2015, a blacklist of tax havens and countries with tax practices that distort competition. the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion is at the heart of citizens' concerns. this must be a top priority for the union.
we support this proposal to grant macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. the following elements are important to us. this programme is a response to a crisis situation caused by structural problems and exacerbated by russian aggression. the government of ukraine has a responsibility to address those long-standing structural problems, such as corruption, selective justice, and so on. the conditionality in the mff programme should contribute to the necessary reforms. there are hopeful signs. the verkhovna rada this week also worked on greater transparency of the state apparatus. and today, two senior officials were arrested on suspicion of corruption. the handling of the ukrtransnafta scandal shows that oligarchs are finally getting the signal that they have to choose: their business or politics. and that if they choose to do business, they can no longer be a direct part of the power. we must encourage our ukrainian friends to continue along this path. in this way, our financial contribution can and will be a real lever for more democracy, prosperity, legal certainty and prospects for the population.
mr president, after the emphatic discussion that i had with president schulz – who told me that i should intervene now and not two hours ago – i call for this report to be referred back to committee on the basis of rule 188(2). the reason is that, if you read the report, there are still doubts about a number of important issues – wikileaks documents and so on. there are also doubts about something that is especially important. when we dealt with the case of mr severin, we agreed to lift his immunity but on the condition that his capacity to exercise his mandate was not affected, that his personal freedom was not restricted. i would ask the committee on legal affairs to take the same decision in the current case, and to reconsider this, so that mr uspaskich’s personal freedom is not restricted. i do not see why mr uspaskich should be treated in a less favourable way than mr severin, who was pursued for corruption, which is a much more serious matter. for that reason, i ask you to have a vote to refer this back to the committee.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your very straightforward comments. i have heard them and i will ensure that they are taken into account by the commission in its current assessment process, as well as its further work on enhancing the clarity and consistency of applicable social and market rules, in particular as part of the road package. by doing so, we will take a more comprehensive approach, which many of you have called for. i would like to underline that the establishment of national minimum pay rates is a positive development. but of course the national measures, while protecting workers, must respect eu law so as to preserve the proper functioning of the internal market with all the benefits it brings across europe. we shall also draw lessons from this experience. the commission will continue to monitor ongoing developments. it reserves the right to intervene against unilateral measures that unduly restrict fundamental freedoms such as the free movement of goods, workers and services. in the pursuit of constant improvement, we will also be looking into the most appropriate measures to create efficient, safe and socially responsible road transport services, with people at the heart of eu transport policy. finally, i would like to stress one more time that the commission will inform parliament of the outcome of its assessment of the compatibility of the german measures with eu law as soon as possible, but please understand that we need to follow eu procedures and that takes time. i assure you, however, that the commission will continue to act as a guardian of the eu treaty and eu law. i will see you again as soon as possible on this topic.
in writing. the social dumping which is taking place in the transport sector (as well as in the construction sector) is unsustainable. companies and their employees are engaged in a race to the bottom at the expense of the workers, regardless of their background. the free movement of services is a pillar of our union, but it will undoubtedly be undermined if we do not tackle social abuses. some of these conditions are the result of outright fraud, shell companies or fake self-employment. the member states should tackle them more effectively by strengthening their social inspection services. other situations, however, are related to the large wage differentials in europe. member states with a minimum wage are now shooting themselves in the foot because transport companies from other member states do not have to respect that minimum. that is untenable. that is why we understand the german measure. the european commission must come forward with proposals to do this. firstly, in the interests of the lorry drivers, many of whom are exploited today. the present situation in the transport sector is unworthy of europe and calls for a decisive response. it is the only way to ensure that our single market will continue to function fully in the future.
in writing. on 8 april 1971, the roma, who represent the first minority in the european union, chose, despite a still difficult situation, the symbols of their community, as well as their flag and anthem. it is estimated that there are between 7 and 9 million roma living in europe. many are still victims of gypsy-phobia. and this can only be combated by recognising their history, their culture and their contribution to europe's heritage. they are still subject to varying degrees of racism and discrimination, either through ignorance or through misconceptions. today, the extent of the genocide of the roma is not sufficiently recognised by the general public, and some are even unaware of its existence. the situation of the roma in europe raises questions about the need to respect human rights in all the countries of origin of the roma population, where they are constantly discriminated against and rejected. european policy in this area is still to be developed!
madam president, at the inauguration of the new european commission, jean-claude juncker and marianne thyssen stressed the decisive role of the social dialogue. this dialogue is essential, but we must recognize that it is not going well today, particularly as regards inter-professional social dialogue. the recent 30th anniversary of the launch of the social dialogue in val duchesse was the occasion for a high-level conference which, by its success, demonstrated the commitment of many actors to this dialogue but above all their expectation of a new start. the european commission is right to want to relaunch this dialogue, which depends on the will of the social partners but also on the energy the commission will devote to defining a method to accompany them. this approach should enable them to find their way back to agreements which commit them concretely, both at sectoral and interprofessional level. this dynamic is indispensable. it will be credible if the commission builds on these agreements by giving them the weight and the place they deserve. i am convinced that this is a challenge we must face, and it is the future of the european project itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 928 workers made redundant by attica broadcasting. it is no secret that greece is probably the european country that is suffering the most from the financial and economic crisis europe is going through. both public and private consumption decreased sharply (by 21 and 32,3 percentage points respectively between 2008 and 2013). as is often the case in these cases, this decline was mainly felt in the spending considered non-essential such as magazine and newspaper purchases, a sector in which attica broadcasting is active. in view of these factors, it seems to me both normal and important to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the fund, and this for an amount of eur 5 046 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the fund to support these workers. the aim of this aid is to reorient and train workers who are victims of restructuring and redundancies in their enterprises. this fund is the symbol of a europe which can be more united. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to get back on track with economic growth. the n-va meps therefore abstained on this dossier.
in writing. ‒ attica publishing, a greek publishing company, has laid off 705 workers. the socioeconomic situation in greece has been complicated since the economic and financial crisis. in 2012, 23% of greeks lived below the poverty line and in 2014, three out of four workers or employees reported that their income level had decreased compared to the previous year due to wage cuts. as a result, many people have cut back on nonessential items such as magazines and newspapers. i therefore did not hesitate for a single second to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this decision will make it possible to provide assistance to greece and these 705 workers with a contribution of eur 3 746 700.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the fund to support these workers. the aim of this aid is to reorient and train workers who are victims of restructuring and redundancies in their enterprises. this fund is the symbol of a europe which can be more united. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr antónio marinho e pinto's immunity, so that the portuguese judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the action is not aimed at damaging the political career of the member concerned but concerns his former activity when mr marinho e pinto was president of the portuguese bar association.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr ivan jakovčić's immunity, so that the croatian judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the charges are not aimed at damaging the political career of the member concerned, but concern defamatory remarks allegedly made by mr jakovčić in an interview with the croatian broadcaster hrt when he was not yet an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this contribution from the egf following 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd in ireland. the contribution is intended for 250 beneficiaries made redundant following the closure of ltai as a result of a combination of factors: technological developments in the production of next generation aircraft and components and the off-shoring of global aircraft production. manufacturers now tend to send their wide-body aircraft to china for heavy maintenance work. this has serious implications for employment and the local economy, especially as the southern and eastern ireland region is home to a population that is already very disadvantaged: low levels of education, lack of vocational qualifications, high levels of social housing. further redundancies in firms in this sector in recent years have further complicated the job search for workers with certain very specific skills that are difficult to exploit in other sectors. that is why i thought it was important to support the request to mobilise the egf, so that redundant people can benefit from european aid for re-employment: training, aid for the creation of companies or self-employed enterprises and income support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund as requested by ireland to help the 450 workers made redundant by lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its suppliers. this irish subsidiary of lufthansa technik, which is active in aircraft repair and maintenance, has experienced financial difficulties as a result of the arrival on the market of a new generation of aircraft increasingly manufactured and maintained in asia. given the many closures in this sector in ireland, it seems important to help these workers to help them train and thus get back into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the fund to support these workers. the aim of this aid is to reorient and train workers who are victims of restructuring and redundancies in their enterprises. this fund is the symbol of a europe which can be more united. it should be stressed, however, that the overall aim of this aid is still to repair the damage caused by unbridled liberalism, which must now be replaced by targeted and massive public investment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr viktor uspaskich's immunity, so that the lithuanian judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the prosecution is not aimed at damaging the political career of the member concerned, but relates to irregular accounting under national procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr gabriele albertini's immunity, so that the italian judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the proceedings are related to statements made by mr albertini when he was a member of the european parliament, but are not part of the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the plan to provide €1.8 billion in medium-term loans to help ukraine emerge from the economic recession. this plan must be complementary to other international aid, such as that of the imf. the major economic difficulties facing ukraine stem from a number of structural weaknesses but have been exacerbated by armed conflict in the east of the country, trade restrictions imposed by russia and the escalation of the conflict over natural gas supplies between russia and ukraine. a number of factors (such as the economic recession and capital flight in ukraine) have contributed to the worsening of the country's situation, leading to a sharp depreciation of its currency (- 60% in one year), high inflation (28.5%), depletion of its reserves and the loss of access to international bond markets. although the european union has already provided unprecedented financial support to ukraine, the adoption of this new aid was essential to help the country avoid bankruptcy. this aid is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev will have to meet a series of criteria for reforms in the budget, banking, energy or judicial systems.
in writing. the ukrainian economy has been particularly affected by the conflict in the east of the country. this new macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to ukraine in the form of medium-term loans is therefore worthy of our full support. this aid will help it to cope with its weak balance of payments, its delicate budgetary situation and, more generally, its economic difficulties. as commission president jean-claude juncker said, 'ukraine is not alone'. europe is unanimous in its support for ukraine and the reform programme of its new government. our actions speak much louder than our words. the european union has already provided unprecedented financial support and today's proposal shows that we are ready to continue. that is what european solidarity is all about. this macro-financial assistance goes hand in hand with a number of reforms such as the reform of public procurement, the implementation of anti-corruption legislation, the adoption of international standards on auditing, as regards the nomenclature of products and services, etc. i remain convinced that ukraine has all the ingredients to become a major economy in europe.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, i supported the european commission's proposal to raise €1.8 billion on the international bond market and lend it to ukraine, with no interest added to the rate that the european union itself must pay back to its external lenders. the economic crisis is raging in ukraine. the country is also beset by long-standing structural problems - such as corruption - exacerbated by the armed conflict in the east of the country, as well as by trade restrictions imposed by russia and the escalating conflict over natural gas supplies between the two countries. having lost access to international debt markets, ukraine can no longer borrow money on its own. the union has therefore done so for ukraine and i welcome the strong political message that the union is sending to ukraine on the same occasion: 'europe stands firmly by your side!' it should be noted that the disbursement will be linked to the implementation by ukraine of structural reforms such as better management of public finances, anti-corruption measures, changes in the tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and measures to improve the business environment.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposed in january to provide new macro-financial assistance to ukraine in the form of medium-term loans of up to eur 1.8 billion. the commission also stressed that the eu would continue to support ukraine's efforts to achieve a sustainable development. the proposed envelope is the third macro-financial assistance programme to ukraine since 2010. in 2014 alone, europe provided €1.36 billion in aid under existing programmes. the final tranche of eur 250 million is due to be paid shortly, subject to the proper implementation by ukraine of the agreed measures. the eu's assistance is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev must meet a series of reform criteria, in the areas of budget, banking, energy and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ ukraine will receive eur 1.8 billion in eu financial assistance. this is the largest amount of eu aid ever given to a non-eu member state. this assistance will take the form of loans, repayable over a maximum of 15 years and subject to ukraine respecting the country's democratization process, as well as the rule of law and human rights. this aid is intended to stabilise the country's economy and support substantial reform of the state. the european commission, together with the imf and the world bank, will follow up the reforms, where necessary in consultation with the european parliament and the european council. this is how we as the eu can help the country to recover and preserve its independence.
in writing. the adoption of the annual report on taxation by a large majority of meps in the european parliament underlines the importance of a european tax policy. ensuring fair taxation helps to revive the union's economy. the financial transaction tax is now a necessity. it could contribute directly to the budget of the european union by increasing its own resources. i believe that the oecd is already doing a remarkable job of ensuring that developing countries can participate on an equal footing with other countries in the formulation and reform of global tax policies.
in writing. ‒ in this report, which i supported yesterday, parliament calls for simplification of national tax systems in order to reduce the administrative tax burden on individuals and businesses; removing obstacles to cross-border activity; encourage more eu countries to join the 11 states that have introduced a financial transaction tax; to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) for union companies; increase the transparency of tax returns (since they create opportunities for tax evasion and competition); to improve the access of national parliaments to tax-related content; to combat selective tax advantages granted to certain undertakings; to ensure that the european commission establishes a blacklist of tax havens and countries with tax practices that distort competition by july 2015; to suspend or revoke banking or advisory authorisations of accountants or other financial advisors if there is evidence that they have contributed to tax evasion; the commission has also proposed that the tax burden be shifted from labour to other forms of taxation and that vat be collected more effectively. the fight against tax evasion must be a top priority for the union. parliament is in that line and i welcome that. something to follow.
in writing. ‒ tax justice and european tax coherence are our objectives for a europe where citizens are on an equal footing with businesses and where the general interest takes precedence over the private interest. with regard to the text voted tonight, immediate, coordinated and comprehensive action is required in the field of tax policy both within the union and at international level in order to eradicate tax evasion, to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, and to combat aggressive tax planning and, of course, tax havens. this immediate action could replace the introduction of new levels or forms of taxation and would generate additional funds that member states badly need to boost public investment and promote growth and job creation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs thomas and mr fernandes. in particular, josé fernandes, because it seems that he has recently been in charge of all the budgetary reports for the epp group. it's surprising, but true. i am not in the habit of praising an article in the regulation on the multiannual financial framework. happy article 19! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i'd like to congratulate you. and at the same time, let me make a point. i find it very surprising that we have this habit at european level of making a complete tabula rasa every seven years, not only of the financial means but also of the legal bases for the financing of the programmes and the legal bases for any adjustments to the procedures, which implies new learning by the national administrations to launch the programmes. is this the smartest way to work? tabula rasa every seven years! the consequence of this is that the present parliament has no say in the content of the programmes decided by the previous parliament. we must protest against this method. that has to change. we cannot continue in this way because it is a bad way of managing and it is a sign of disrespect for the democracy on which the legitimacy of the european parliament is based.
in writing. we voted today on the proposal for a council decision establishing an advisory committee on employment. the coordination of the employment policies of the member states and the establishment of a coordinated strategy for employment are now essential. the committee's task will be to monitor developments in the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and in the union, to formulate opinions and to promote exchanges of information and experience between the member states and with the commission. the committee's tasks are important, but i would stress the importance of consulting the social partners, who i am sure will be of great help in carrying out these various tasks. thank you for your attention.
the genocide of the roma in the second world war, the ongoing genocide of christians in the middle east, they call for reflection. the other genocide, the armenian genocide, still leaves deep wounds, and a century later the consequences are still visible and palpable. there is no recognition, no apology, no compensation or return of goods by the turkish government. on the contrary, president erdogan is still today declaring that whatever decision is taken by the european parliament will be met with a resounding refusal. the eu, which is the champion of human rights, is on the sidelines. i would remind you that on 12 march last, this parliament voted on the panzeri report on human rights, which called for recognition by the eu member states, as opposed to legal recognition. fortunately, there was pope francis, who dared to call things by their right names. my party, with many of its supporters, is also calling on the european parliament to adopt a resolution requiring the turkish government to recognize and reconcile. only then will europe be able to be called a beacon of peace as a continent.
we all know that the subject of the armenian genocide is still very sensitive and difficult to discuss, even now, 100 years after the events. but this resolution is not a resolution against anything or anyone, and certainly not against the turkish people or its leaders. this resolution is an important first step towards making room for the past. by recognizing and commemorating the armenian genocide, future generations will no longer be trapped in the past but can free themselves from it. for this reason, in 1998, the belgian federal parliament was one of the first national parliaments to recognize the terrible fate of the armenians and other populations as a genocide. the most important thing is probably to understand the historical and ideological context in which the genocide could have taken place. we can learn lessons from the fact that today too, ideologies are emerging from time to time which can result in aggressive regimes, where forced deportation and genocide are no longer to be excluded. i therefore regard this resolution first and foremost as an important lesson and warning for our generation and for the next.
mr president, at dawn on 24 april 1915, in constantinople, six hundred armenian dignitaries were murdered on the orders of the ottoman regime. this is the beginning of the first genocide of modern times and i call albert camus here to kindly remind the commissioner of the importance of using the right words. our parliament was, as far back as 1987 - as has been said - the first international organization to recognize this genocide. today, almost 30 years later, and although the turkish government's position has changed - i do not minimize this fact - it is still the recognition of this genocide that crystallizes relations between turks and armenians. this is further evidenced by president erdoğan's recent statements on pope francis. it is not the case that the european parliament has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. like my colleague and friend, jean-marie cavada, i do not think so. winston churchill and others, such as elie wiesel, said: "a people that forgets its past is doomed to relive it". our house of europe has a role to play in building a common future between turks and armenians. that's what we want to do today.
of course, a quota is not really a solution. we need to focus more on the competencies, not just the limitations of the person in question. i would therefore like to stress the importance of good inclusive education and good vocational training in order to create equal opportunities for people with disabilities. the eu, as a ratifier of the un convention, must set the example. you just spoke about the recruitment phase, which is going very well. but what happens after the recruitment? do people have opportunities for promotion, do they have opportunities for training? do they have a chance of getting high-level jobs? is there a strategy in place? we should encourage people with disabilities to apply for jobs in the eu, but the eu is not or is not sufficiently known as a potential employer. what strategy will you use to resolve that if necessary? (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i said that a quota is not really a solution. you see in many countries that there is a quota system, but still people with disabilities are not finding work. on paper, that's fine, but it doesn't always work in practice. the accompanying measures are lacking and we need them more than just a quota. so the government must provide support. for example, interpreters must be provided for deaf people, and workplace adaptations are needed for wheelchair users. the employer is not always willing to pay these costs. if the government offers to intervene, it may be better than a quota alone.
in writing. obligation to employ disabled workers in companies with at least 20 employees, principle of non-discrimination, obligation to negotiate measures relating to occupational integration, general accessibility, these are the legislative framework established for disabled workers. however, disabled people continue to have great difficulty in finding or keeping a job and their unemployment rate remains twice that of the general population. as early as 2009, the busnel report entitled 'employment, a right to live for all' highlighted the priority to be given to preventing occupational exclusion and maintaining employment. in 2014, the right to employment in the ordinary workplace for people with disabilities is still far from being effective. the european parliament has a role to play in ensuring that some citizens are not left behind and in helping to make europe a europe for all citizens.
"summer turtles and quails are the big losers in malta". i fully endorse this quote from the flanders bird protection agency. malta missed a historic opportunity to end spring-hunting of migratory birds in a referendum last saturday. the poor record of malta in implementing and enforcing the birds directive is well known. while this island should be a refuge for migratory birds because of its geographical location, in practice it is one of the main bottlenecks between africa and europe, and hunters kill large numbers of birds both in spring and in autumn. this is clearly contrary to european regulations. malta was condemned by the european court of justice in 2009. i now ask the european commission to send a clear signal to put an end to this hunt at the earliest opportunity. i also expect the commission, in the revision of the birds directive, to make these irresponsible practices structurally impossible, not only in malta but also in the rest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ many carriers have struggled to cope with the decline in volumes and the drop in freight rates following the economic and industrial crisis of 2008. this is particularly the case for the transport company mory-ducros, whose turnover has been falling in recent years. in bankruptcy, the company was taken over by a new entity mory global but 2,804 people will remain on the job. the egf will provide €6 052 200 to implement a major action and service plan to help redundant workers reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for a financial contribution of eur 6 052 200 for 2 513 workers made redundant by mory-ducros sas, the second largest french operator of freight transport services. as a result of the financial and economic crisis, this sector has been hit hard. a price war has broken out because of the decline in physical production in europe. in addition, costs (gasoline, wages, materials) have risen, leading to a deterioration in operating margins, large losses and numerous bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector. mory-ducros accumulated significant losses in 2012 and 2013. in november 2013, the company declared bankruptcy and was placed under judicial administration. in february 2014, a liquidator was appointed. as part of the liquidation, the newly created mory global took over 50 out of 84 branches and re-employed 2 107 workers (out of 4 911). of the remaining 2 804 workers, 2 513 will be able to receive, with the help of the egf, expert advice on individual career paths and training to develop their job search skills. the egf contribution is 60% of the cost of these personalised services.
in writing. by approving on wednesday afternoon european jobsearch aid for the 2,500 workers made redundant by the french road haulage company mory-ducros, meps showed that european social policy is not a mere word. financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund, following on from the €5.2 million received in march by 2,498 workers made redundant in belgium: duferco, saint-gobain sekurit, caterpillar and arcelor mittal liège; europe does not fail to act in the interests of its citizens when they are directly affected by economic redundancies. the citizens of the european union obviously expect more from the european project than a passive social policy based on the 'safety net' alone. this is why it is essential to facilitate financing for smes and innovation on the one hand, and to revive investment in major infrastructure projects that create wealth, jobs and social cohesion on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ the global financial and economic crisis has not spared the road freight transport sector of over 3.5 tonnes, whose activity decreased by 13.7% in the european union and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. this contraction in activity has led to a price war between the various companies in the sector, leading to numerous restructurings over the same period. this is particularly the case at mory-ducros, where 2 513 workers were made redundant as a result of the economic downturn. in order to help these many workers, i naturally voted in favour of the request made by the french authorities for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 6 052 200. i hope that this contribution will enable them to regain employment stability quickly.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april, meps voted in plenary in brussels to provide €6 million in aid to the dismissed mory-ducros employees under the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the aid application concerns 2 513 workers at more than 80 sites in metropolitan france. before its liquidation in february 2014, the mory-ducros group was the second largest operator in the courier and charter sector. the group has suffered the consequences of the decline in road freight transport in vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. this, due to the crisis and less activity, decreased by 13.7% in the european union between 2007 and 2012. this decline has led to a price war and increased competition between carriers, while their operating margins have been reduced by the concomitant rise in the cost of fuel, wages and materials. the fund was set up to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to get back on track with economic growth. the n-va meps therefore abstained on this dossier.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of each parliamentary term, as it is not established by the treaties, it is necessary to re-establish the advisory committee on social protection, which brings together national experts and officials to assist the council. the committee's task is to monitor the development of social protection in the member states and to draw up reports or opinions on the subject, either on its own initiative or at the request of the council or the commission.
in writing. i approve the adoption of the text establishing the social protection committee. this new body will, on the one hand, allow for a close monitoring of the social situation in the european union and of the developments in the various social protection policies of the member states and, on the other hand, for better coordination of policy approaches between the member states and the european commission in preparing the work of the european council on employment and social policy. i also believe that it would be appropriate for economic and monetary union to have a social pillar.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ulvskog report approving the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee. the establishment of the agency follows the conclusions of the european council of june 2013 calling for the strengthening of the social dimension of economic and monetary union. as a first step, it is important to ensure better monitoring and take better account of the situation in emu, both in the social field and in the labour market, in particular through the use of appropriate social and employment indicators in the context of the european semester. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. it is true that social europe takes time to set up and to produce the desired results for european citizens, young and old, who want to integrate the labour market or simply return to it, but there is a desire to ensure that social issues are taken into account in the main european policies, despite the limited powers conferred by the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal to set up a social protection committee with an advisory role. the committee is to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and with the commission. europe must indeed answer the question of its social convergence, and i believe that this committee can help to do so. its tasks are varied, ranging from monitoring the social situation to facilitating exchanges of information, preparing reports or formulating opinions at the request of the council or the commission, and also on its own initiative. i have chosen to vote in favour of this council decision to set up such a committee because i am convinced that it will be able to strengthen social protection in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of the council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing decision 2000/436/ec. this is therefore a green light for the commission's proposal to set up an enhanced cooperation mechanism, defined by the high level group of officials, for the implementation of this action. such cooperation should cover all forms of social protection and, where necessary, assist member states in improving and strengthening their social protection systems, in accordance with their national priorities.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of each parliamentary term, as it is not established by the treaties, it is necessary to re-establish the advisory committee on employment, which brings together national experts and officials to assist the council. the committee's task is to monitor developments in the employment situation in the member states and to produce reports or opinions on the matter, either on its own initiative or at the request of the council or the commission.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision to set up an employment advisory committee. i think it is important to ensure coordination of the employment policies of the member states and to set up a coordinated strategy for employment. the committee's task will be to monitor developments in the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and in the union, to formulate opinions and to promote exchanges of information and experience between the member states and with the commission. the committee's tasks are important, but i would stress the importance of consulting the social partners, who i am sure will be of great help in carrying out these various tasks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec. it should be recalled that in fulfilling its task, which consists inter alia in formulating opinions and contributing to the preparation of the work of the council and the commission, the committee should help to ensure that the european employment strategy, the coordination of macroeconomic policies and the process of economic reform are formulated and implemented in a coherent and complementary manner.
in writing. i welcome the amendment to the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 which will allow 300 national programmes from all member states to be implemented swiftly. these programmes were launched too late to access eu funding for 2014. the amendment, adopted by a very large majority in parliament, will allow €21.1 billion of unused commitment appropriations to be transferred from 2014 to the 2015-2017 period. these appropriations represent 15% of the european budget for 2014 and 47% of the total programmes.
in writing. ‒ in times of budgetary shortages, managing money in an optimal way is more than ever an obligation. this is how we should view the vote this evening by the european parliament to give its approval to the transfer for the years 2015 to 2017 of a considerable amount of 21 billion euros of unused appropriations in the 2014 budget. this is due to the commission's overly optimistic forecasts last year for european programmes adopted in national capitals: less than one in two were completed in the member states. the remaining 61% was therefore logically carried over to 2015 or carried over to subsequent years. it is now to be hoped that this revision of the multiannual financial framework will be used to finance projects which are important and visible to the regions and cities, and thus to the citizens of europe. too often, local authorities are reluctant to highlight european financial support for such construction or transport improvements and thus to provide objective information on the concrete contribution of the eu to everyday life in rural areas, tourist areas or in disadvantaged areas of large cities, etc. this silence is becoming a crime against a backdrop of growing euroscepticism.
in writing. ‒ the late adoption of the 2014-2020 policy regulations prevented the timely adoption of all operational programmes. the commission's forecasts proved to be too optimistic: at the end of 2014, the percentage of programmes adopted was low (39%, or 252 eu programmes). fourteen per cent of these do not require a revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). but ... three hundred other programmes require - in order not to lose the 2014 appropriations - a revision of the mff in accordance with article 19 of the regulation, under which the 2014 allocations are carried over to the following years. this is a crucial step in completing the process of starting the new programming period for cohesion policy, avoiding any negative effects for regions and cities, and thus for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transfer to 2015 almost all unused appropriations from 2014 for heading 1b, economic, social and territorial cohesion, with the exception of the erdf contributions to cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance and the european neighbourhood instrument which are transferred to 2017. the need for the commission to cooperate with the member states and regions should be emphasized, not only to adopt all other programmes rapidly but also to implement the programmes themselves rigorously, with the aim of achieving full and effective use of all resources. as regards the transfer to the financial year 2017 of the entire 2014 erdf contribution to cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance and the european neighbourhood instrument, the rapporteur for the opinion acknowledges the delays in the adoption of these programmes and the complexity of the latter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. this text is not only an opportunity to pay official tribute to the memory of the 1 500 000 innocent armenian victims who lost their lives in the ottoman empire. it is also a way of encouraging turkey to face its history. i would like to welcome the statement made by pope francis on 12 april last, in which he called the massacre of armenians from 1915 to 1923 the first genocide of the 20th century. i believe that following the statements of the president and prime minister of turkey in 2014, who expressed their condolences to the ottoman armenians and acknowledged the atrocities committed against them, it is now essential that turkey ceases to consider this to be a civil war and officially recognizes the armenian genocide in order to lay the foundations for a genuine reconciliation, to relaunch diplomatic relations, to actively improve their relations, especially in terms of cross-border cooperation and economic integration.
in writing. ‒ this is the first time that the european parliament has put the issue of the armenian genocide as such on the agenda of its plenary and i am delighted. relations between armenia and turkey have always been particularly tense. there are no official diplomatic relations between the two countries. this mutual enmity is explained in particular by the darkest episode in their common history, the massacre of 1 500 000 armenians by the ottoman government between 1915 and 1923. today, although turkey acknowledges "massacres", it still categorically rejects responsibility for genocide. the recent exchange on this issue between pope francis and president erdoğan shows how recognizing the genocide, or even naming it, remains a taboo for the turkish authorities. the step is important, we are all aware of it, and it was also difficult for those in europe who were on the wrong side of history between 1940 and 1945. it is essential if turkey is to join us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recognition of the armenian genocide which led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of armenian christians during the first world war under the rule of the ottoman rulers. in view of the fact that historical truth has its rights, it seems right, undeniable and necessary to call these massacres genocide. i hope that the turkish authorities will listen to what the european union and the world are saying to them, look at history with a critical eye and finally deliver the same message. the challenge is not to burden those in power today, but to enable the past to be seen as a way of building the future by opening the way to reconciliation. the armenian people have the right to know their past including through archives and turkey has a moral obligation to allow them access to it.
in writing. ‒ although the european parliament itself has already recognized the armenian genocide as early as 1987, europe is still divided on the issue and the european commission has not officially recognized the term genocide either. but it is above all the attitude of turkish president recep tayyip erdoğan that is an obstacle to this recognition. it's not about attacking turkey. mr. erdoğan was not born, he was not the one who sent the troops and organized the massacres of armenians and the systematic genocide, that is to say a state crime that is the definition of genocide. but it is he who today refuses to recognize the memory of that genocide, even though he and his prime minister have begun to express condolences, a gesture which i welcome. i think that other actions in this direction are essential.
in writing. ‒ the issue of roma integration in the european union is unfortunately still topical. discrimination against the first ethnic minority in the union is unjustifiable. they must stop as soon as possible. after centuries of slavery, the roma were subjected to the brutality of the nazi regime during world war ii. but this part of the story is too often overlooked. for these reasons, and in the name of equality, human rights and the values of the socialist group, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i welcome this resolution calling for more efforts to stop the rise of anti-gypsyism in europe. the roma, europe's largest ethnic minority, are still too often the object of discrimination that undermines their social integration. the recognition of the genocide of the roma during the second world war and the creation of a european day of remembrance of the roma genocide are already a symbolic step in the fight against anti-gypsyism, which is clearly incompatible with the standards and values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ after recognising the genocide of the roma in 2011, the european parliament now calls for a proper commemoration day, so that this crime will never be erased from collective memory. nearly 500,000 roma perished in concentration camps and remain the unknown victims of the nazi genocides. this day will not fix what can never be fixed, but it is an important step in the fight against the increasingly explicit and violent racism that this community is suffering in europe. attacks are being committed and speeches are being made (including in this house!) against the values on which we are founded. on august 2, 1944, 3,000 roma, women and children were gassed at auschwitz-birkenau. the date must forever seal our resolve not to forget.
in writing. ‒ the roma currently represent 10 to 12 million people in europe. they are the largest ethnic minority in africa. a majority of them still live in abject poverty and are subject to extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination. i am deeply concerned about the rise of anti-gypsyism, which is manifested in, among other things, anti-roma rhetoric and violent attacks in europe, including murders, which are contrary to the norms and values of the european union and which constitute a major obstacle to the social integration of the roma and the full respect for their rights. the resolution adopted today calls on the member states to implement effectively council directive 2000/43/ec of 29 june 2000 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, in order to prevent and eliminate discrimination against roma, in particular in employment, education and access to housing, and condemns in particular, in the strongest and most unequivocal terms, all forms of racism and discrimination against roma.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation chose to support the resolution in its entirety because it contains solid elements and is therefore a good compromise across party lines. roma remain victims of racism, and this growing trend must be combated. they therefore deserve sustained efforts to implement the above directives and a day of commemoration for the crimes committed against them during world war ii. the n-va would like to point out that it is not satisfied with the strict wording of paragraph 2. the cause of discrimination is entirely due to the failure of society, and we believe that this overlooks the individual responsibility component. it is true that society must provide structures for minorities to exercise their rights equally, but those rights must be coupled with duties, first and foremost the obligation to seize the opportunities offered and to strive for inclusiveness as a minority community itself.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that there are between 7 and 9 million roma living in europe. many roma are still victims of anti-gypsyism. and this can only be combated by recognising their history, their culture and their contribution to europe's heritage. because of ignorance or prejudice, they are still subject to varying degrees of racism and discrimination. a duty of memory today, the extent of the genocide of the roma is not sufficiently recognised by the general public, and some are even unaware of its existence. this international day is very important.
mr president, it is little wonder that, without these whistleblowers, we would not have received a first tax package from the commission. without them we would have had nothing at all, and perhaps we will have nothing at all in june either. it is absolutely vital that we encourage and protect these whistleblowers. we must therefore encourage the commission to include provisions to protect whistleblowers in its second tax package, due in june. in light of the recent indictments, a debate on this subject is more than appropriate. (parliament adopted the request for an amendment)
mr president, we support the request, especially since there is real urgency. in other words, if we were to postpone this request, we would be way too close to the election. we therefore support the request. (parliament adopted the request for an amendment)
in december we reached agreement with the imco committee on the ecall dossier. four months later, as the ecr's shadow rapporteur, i am very pleased that this agreement will hopefully allow us to have formal confirmation in the plenary tomorrow. we lose far too many citizens in traffic, deaths that could have been prevented by the faster ecall system and thus a more efficient response. the ecall system can indeed save many lives. automatically contacting the emergency services in the event of an accident saves a lot of time, time that can often mean the difference between life and death. the system also offers numerous other advantages: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is a good thing that we can contribute in this way from the european union to optimise the safety of our citizens on the roads. other aspects, such as flexibility in future application and technological developments, and also privacy protection, are also taken into account. only when the airbag opens will data be transmitted, which will then be deleted in a timely manner. that is why i cannot support the amendment that alde will be tabled on this subject. they would like people to be able to shut down the system themselves, which is actually missing the point. i therefore sincerely hope that we can send a positive signal together tomorrow by approving this life-saving system.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, there is one point on which i cannot agree with the reasoning of my dear colleague mrs grossetête: it is when she says that there would be unfair competition or a distortion of competition between european and non-european producers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, ladies and gentlemen, companies like c&a and jbc have made tremendous progress in trying to improve the conditions of workers. on the other hand, a company like h&m has not made any progress and has not learned from what happened in dhaka. she still treats the workers like cattle. we can weld clothes, but not workers' rights. do you agree with me that we should move the companies that are not moving and that we should publish a blacklist of companies that are showing bad will to advance workers' rights?
madam president, we are all talking about the tragedy of two years ago, when more than a thousand people lost their lives. but today thousands of people are still losing their lives for the same reasons, because we have in europe systems of production and consumption that are totally perverse. many of my colleagues have pointed to this reality. we can take our responsibilities in europe by making it compulsory for companies that not only produce in europe but also order and import goods into europe to be traceable and accountable. all products sold and consumed in europe should have this mandatory traceability in relation to labour law requirements, but also human rights. in may we will have the opportunity here in this very assembly to adopt a traceability system for minerals. i hope that all those who mourned the rana plaza workers will vote in favour of this proposal, which will go towards mandatory traceability for minerals.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for this very important debate. indeed i think there is general agreement that there has been progress in bangladesh in important areas and the commission was very quick, through my predecessor, to liaise with the us, with the ilo, with individual countries and the bangladeshi government to try to put together this compact to see what we can do to prevent future tragedies, of course, but also to build sustainable development when it comes to labour rights, safe working conditions and a sustainable situation for the many women who work in this industry. so, many things have been done but as i said in my introduction, we are far from happy. there is so much more to be done. we are pushing the bangladeshi government and we are repeating that they must do more, they must implement the provisions that they have enacted in the field of labour law, they must make sure that guarantees are also made in the processing zones and they must make sure that people can join trade unions and that they are allowed to act freely and independently, and here there is much more to be done. on the matter of compensation: the compensation fund was outside the pact. around usd 24 million has been pledged to that fund so compensation has been paid out to many people, but not to all, and this must of course continue. the commission is also providing support for the victims through rehabilitation and training for those who survived and those who have lost their jobs. but we are encouraging companies to contribute to that fund. many have; some are very public about that, there are lists online; some are contributing without giving their names; some are not willing to put down the figures and with others we are pushing for them to contribute. many companies have contributed to inspection. more than 2 500 inspections have been carried out and we have jointly trained inspectors to be looking at this as well. the commission will continue to monitor this situation very closely. as i said, we have just issued a report on implementation of the compact which is available for members to read and we have also made a joint statement with the us on what needs to be done further. in that report there is, as many members asked, a reference to minimum wages and we will continue to monitor this very closely, in cooperation with partners in the compact but also together with the bangladeshi government, working with them, pushing them, to do their part in this. we are also considering a high-level follow-up meeting in dhaka later this autumn to take stock, on the spot, of where progress has been made and what is still to be done, and i will be happy to continue the dialogue with this house on this issue. so i hope that we can soon be in a position to report further progress while knowing that this is not a situation that will change very quickly. we are also, as many members mentioned, working on the issues of due diligence and responsible value chains with the ilo, with the oecd and with other partners. the communication that the commission is preparing for the autumn, in which we will outline our priorities for trade for the coming five years, will also play a role: sustainable value change, encouraging companies to exercise due diligence and to see what we have learned from the whole tragic bangladeshi experience, to put that in the future strategy as well. in this, of course, i am looking forward to working with the committee on international trade (inta) and others as well. we owe it to the victims of rana plaza and their families not only to commemorate the tragic events but also to make sure that we really bring about long-term change. it is not easy, it will not change overnight but we can do more, we are doing more and, honourable members, you can count on the commission to keep on monitoring this very closely; i am also counting on you. i know that many of you have been in bangladesh, many of you are following this very closely. so let us together do what we can to make sure that change is not temporary but really sustainable.
in writing. where are we two years after the rana plaza textile factory collapse in bangladesh that claimed the lives of 1,134 workers? what about the working conditions, safety and health of the bangladeshi workers? there has been some progress, but let us be clear that there is still work to be done. agreements were signed to strengthen inspections in factories and to improve safety standards. wages have been increased and the amendment of the law on the formation of trade unions has also strengthened the capacity of trade unions at the national level. the european union has contributed to these developments, in particular through the active support of the international labour organisation. it has a vital role to play in preventing similar disasters from happening again. it should be noted that 60% of the country's clothing exports are destined for the eu! in these circumstances, europe must take its responsibility by lobbying the bangladeshi authorities, as well as the big brands that employ this low-cost workforce, to adopt better safety systems at work. it's a matter of ethics and humanity!
mr president, with the crisis many companies are facing mass redundancies. it is essential to put in place accompanying measures to ensure the reintegration and retraining of the staff concerned. many states have indeed provided for such arrangements. this is particularly the case in belgium, where the reconversion cells have proved their effectiveness. i would like to draw attention to the particular situation of crossborder workers. they do not always have the opportunity to benefit from such support, precisely because of the lack of crossborder arrangements. the european commission should be able to tackle this problem by proposing a form of european cooperation between the various support services. this could be done in particular with the help of the european eures network. it is important that all european workers, whether cross-border or not, should be able to benefit from such schemes.
i think we can say that we are pleased that after years of negotiations there is finally an agreement on biofuels. we know that this agreement is not perfect, but with this adjustment we are definitely setting out on the path of so-called 'advanced' biofuels which do not burden agriculture, do not raise food prices in the long term and do not prevent deforestation. profit for the environment, therefore profit for the climate. and we're gonna put an end to all these bad side effects. the producers now know where they stand and can plan investments that will ultimately benefit the production of advanced biofuel, renewable fuel. this agreement also provides clarity for the producers of the so-called conventional fuels, those of the first generation. they will have time to prepare and gradually switch to these advanced biofuels that are environmentally friendly. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that this reform also provides a first and important stimulus to electric driving, based on renewable sources of course. i think we can conclude that what we are approving today is indeed a first important step in the right direction and also one of the pillars of that energy union which is so dear to all of us and to you, commissioner, and which we must achieve in the coming months and years.
in writing. the pressure on agricultural land generated by the agrofuels industry will have a direct impact on the risk of food shortages and an increase in food prices. the production of these must therefore be limited and the concept itself must be re-examined. we would have liked more, however. among our regrets: - we were asking for a 5% ceiling. less would not be acceptable given the investments made by the sector in this area and since the current share at european level is 4.5%. this is far from a small detail when we know that each percentage of agrofuels represents just over one million hectares that are withdrawn from food production, i.e. almost the entire arable area of a country like belgium. - we also wanted binding targets for advanced agrofuels (second and third generation), whereas the agreement provides only an incentive. i am in favour of these advanced biofuels. they use only the inedible parts of the plants and agricultural waste. the lack of binding objectives in this area is a mistake.
madam president, a few figures are sometimes better than a long speech: a plastic bag is five seconds of manufacture, five minutes of use and up to 500 years of decomposition. that is the significance of the compromise we are talking about here, which was reached between parliament and the council to discourage their use. in practice, therefore, member states will have a choice: reduce the number of lightweight plastic bags used per person per year to no more than 40 by 2025 or stop giving them away for free in shops by 2018. that's reasonable. unfortunately, given the disparities in europe - 4 plastic bags per consumer per year in finland, for example, compared to 400 in poland or portugal - this is probably reasonable but not sustainable, and i regret it. it will take ten years in total to do, in the end, less well than the best students in the class. frankly, europe can do better and must do better. when i say 'europe', i am speaking of the member states lagging behind, which could usefully draw inspiration from the good practices of the north. not only in the north, because, as we have heard, the good pupils are in ireland and the grand duchy of luxembourg, in particular.
look at the enormous damage being done to our marine environment and we all understand that the use of lightweight plastic bags needs to be limited. at present, there are major differences between member states. flanders, the region i represent, can produce good results. since 2003, the use of plastic bags has decreased by over 80 percent. we are therefore among the leaders, but there is still room for improvement and a european objective also offers advantages to those at the forefront, such as a clearly predictable legal framework, the creation of a level playing field and the protection and improvement of the living environment for all eu citizens. the text also gives the member states the necessary flexibility. to label this measure as patronizing smells of populism. the enormous plastic mountain presents us with environmental challenges that require a broad-based approach. the forthcoming review of the waste package provides an opportunity to take further structural measures to make the transition to a more resource-efficient circular economy.
i welcome the agreement reached as a good, balanced and feasible first step towards reducing co2 emissions from maritime transport. international maritime transport is the last of the mohicans, as it is the only mode of transport not yet included in the eu's commitment and objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the sector accounts for 4% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions. this share is increasing and will continue to increase in the coming years, not only in the eu but also globally. there is therefore an objective reason for making the necessary efforts in this mode of transport. reliable and comparable data must always form the basis of a well-thought-out policy. the proposed system of monitoring, reporting and verification is therefore a good and necessary starting point and has the potential to create a win-win situation in several areas. so there are reasons to support this agreement with conviction.
in writing. ‒ fishing is one of the most dangerous jobs. it is estimated that 24,000 fishermen die each year in the course of their work. in order to ensure the safety of the personnel working on board fishing vessels, it is essential that they are qualified and fit for the job. the international convention on standards for fishing vessel personnel is designed to improve the training of fishermen by ensuring minimum skills and qualifications. it is therefore in the interests of protecting workers and improving safety at the workplace that i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. fishing is a dangerous occupation, with a higher rate of occupational mortality than other occupations. the number of deaths in the fishing sector is 24 000 a year. it was therefore urgent for parliament to send a strong message by encouraging the member states of the union to become parties, in the interest of the union, to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. at present, 22 of the 28 eu member states have already adopted the convention, which guarantees that fishing vessel personnel are qualified and fit for work, and four have already ratified it.
in writing. ‒ with 24 000 seafarers dying each year, fishing is the occupational activity officially recording the highest number of occupational accidents. the european parliament's vote is intended to push the member states to allow ratification of the 1995 international convention (stcw-f). twenty years later, only four member states have ratified the text. these countries are therefore the only ones where fishermen benefit from safe working conditions as provided for in the convention, safety training and certificates guaranteeing the quality of the staff on boats over 24 metres. the eu can only give its approval to ratification of the agreement, which must be done at national level, even if european legislation takes precedence in the event of a conflict. the international maritime organisation (imo) aims to enforce these safety standards and ensure a significant reduction in accidents in the maritime sector. it also encourages member states to adopt their own safety laws for seafarers working on vessels of less than 24 metres in length. unfortunately, they have not yet been taken into account in the international convention. #mrk
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the stcw-f convention is to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for work (after medical examination) and, therefore, to minimise the risks to the safety of persons and/or property at sea, or to the marine environment, during operations on board vessels. the purpose of this decision is to authorise member states to ratify the stcw-f convention in accordance with the union's exclusive competence for the recognition of regulated professions exercised by union nationals on board fishing vessels.
in writing. - i mean, i want to say! i voted for the text, of course. i would remind you that fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate, with an estimated 24 000 deaths per year. this legislation is timely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the convention on the standards for the crew of fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, as the unused appropriations from 2014 have to be carried over to the following years due to the late adoption of programmes under shared management, in order to avoid unfair treatment of certain member states and regions. however, given the high number of outstanding invoices, the commission should be very vigilant to ensure that this postponement does not lead to further bottlenecks and should propose appropriate solutions. it is also essential that all programmes be launched as quickly as possible to avoid any further delays.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to carry over unused appropriations from 2014 to 2015 as far as possible. this should, in particular, support efforts to promote growth and job creation. that is why i support this report. as the report points out, however, extreme vigilance must be exercised as to the long-term impact of this postponement on the overall situation of payments. the commission will therefore have to monitor its implementation closely in order to avoid a 'snowball' effect.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the draft amending budget contributing to the revision of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. it is essential for european citizens and for the economy as a whole that appropriations still unused since 2014 are carried over to subsequent years. this will help to create jobs and growth. this postponement will also avoid unequal treatment between member states, regions or programmes. this budgetary adjustment is a reminder of the considerable impact that unpaid debts can have on the implementation of promising projects.
in writing. ‒ the report in question highlights the unreliability of some of the controls carried out by the member states under shared management and the data they have reported. i voted in favour of this report because, because of the reservations expressed by dg agri, dg regio and dg empl in their respective annual activity reports, parliament cannot guarantee that the control procedures put in place by the commission and the member states have offered all the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of all the operations carried out. the credibility of the european institutions is at stake. moreover, over the years the commission and the member states have shown little inclination to adhere to rigorous financial management. the overall error rate, estimated at 4,7% in 2013, has been increasing steadily since 2009 (especially, for example, in expenditure on the common agricultural policy, where the error rate is 6,7%). the report i supported therefore calls for more transparency on the part of the member states cooperating with the commission and states that the provision of false information by the member states must be punished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2015: revision of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i am concerned, however, that a significant number of programmes are still awaiting adoption. it is essential that all programmes are adopted and launched as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the council's position on the draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ our parliament today approves the introduction of the ecall automated emergency call system. the system, which is installed in cars, is designed to trigger a europe-wide emergency call to 112 in the event of an accident, thus saving valuable time in saving lives. according to the commission, around 25 700 people lost their lives in road accidents in 2014. the ecall is expected to reduce this figure by up to 10%. from 31 march 2018, all car manufacturers will have to provide such a device in their new cars. i welcome this step. in accidents with serious injuries in particular, rapid assistance is often vital. by committing to installing ecall in all vehicles from 2018, we can help to reduce the number of road deaths significantly.
in writing. ‒ the deployment of an ecall in-vehicle system is one of the european union's main road safety objectives. this system would make it compulsory for all new vehicles sold in the european union to have an emergency call service. it would guarantee the initiation of an emergency call to 112 in the event of a serious accident. the installation of this system would reduce the number of road deaths by between 1 and 10%, depending on the member state. i consider road safety to be a top priority, and the number of deaths on european roads must be reduced. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which will undoubtedly save lives.
in writing. ‒ with our vote today, the green light for the rollout of ecall is finally on. parliament has long called for this: every new vehicle will be equipped with an ecall system by 2018 at the latest. by automatically alerting emergency services in the event of an accident, they can be on the scene up to 50% faster. this could save 2,500 road traffic fatalities a year. ecall will therefore be crucial to delivering on our commitment to halve the number of road deaths by 2020. ecall is already on the market, but is currently an optional extra that is reserved for those who have extra cash in their wallet. from 2018, fortunately, there will be no additional costs, but it will be mandatory built into every new car. with this new legislation, we are ensuring that privacy is protected and that access to other ancillary services (such as repairs) is guaranteed in an open and transparent manner. of course, member states must also fulfil their obligations and prepare to process ecall data and ensure that ecall works everywhere.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the proposal by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) to install a life-saving emergency call system in cars. i am in favour of this system because i believe that the emergency services can give a swifter response to car crashes with the ecall system. an estimated 2 500 lives can be saved throughout europe as the call system enables the emergency services to reach crash scenes faster. another reason why i voted in favour of ecall is because the system works only as a safety device and not as a method of tracking vehicles to misuse location data. as rapporteur for the related committee on transport and tourism (tran) ecall report, i am looking forward to the inauguration of the ecall system on the 31 march 2018.
in writing. the text aims to introduce an obligation to install the ecall system in all vehicles in the union from 2018. the principle: in the event of an accident, the vehicle will automatically call 112 and automatically send the basic data (type of vehicle, type of fuel, time of the accident and location of the vehicle) to the emergency services. i supported this text because the measures it provides should save lives. it is well known that the first few minutes of an accident are of vital importance and that they greatly determine the chances of survival of the victims. the ecall system should save valuable minutes by automatically (or manually triggered) communicating relevant information to the emergency services.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's desire to make the technological system known as ecall widely available in europe. this system automatically calls the european emergency number, 112, in the event of a road accident and provides immediate information on the location and details of the vehicle. all new vehicles will have to be equipped with this new device from 2018. this is an important step towards saving lives, as some studies suggest that it will cut emergency response times by half, particularly in rural areas.
in writing. 25 700 europeans lost their lives on our roads last year and it is estimated that for a tenth of them, the delay in responding is the cause. not the slowness of the rescue services, but the delay in getting the first word out. the vote this afternoon gives the green light to ecall, a device that will be installed in cars from 2018 to automatically call for help in the event of an accident, even if the passengers are unconscious. it is easy to imagine the time saved, especially in our large states where the victims of accidents can go unreported for long hours, sometimes with tragic consequences. i was very sensitive to the fact that the data protection of the drivers we are is being strengthened. there is no way that our geolocations will be passed on to third parties or stored indefinitely. what dangers? it is in the same spirit that i tabled an amendment asking for the possibility of unplugging the system. it was not backed up. i admit that this freedom could have been misused, especially by young people, the first victims of road traffic: systematically and bravely cutting off the system could, in this case, have a dramatic effect.
in writing. ‒ by 31 march 2018, all new car and light commercial vehicle models will have to be equipped with ecall devices, which will automatically alert rescue services in the event of an accident. i would remind you that in 2014, road accidents claimed the lives of 25 700 people in the union. a figure which the new system could reduce by about 10% per year. the ecall system will use 112 emergency call technology to automatically alert emergency services in the event of a serious road accident. this will enable these services to decide immediately on the type and extent of the rescue operation needed, allowing them to arrive at the scene of the accident more quickly, saving lives and reducing the severity of injuries. the resolution also calls on the european commission to assess, within three years after spring 2018, whether ecall should be extended to other vehicles such as buses, coaches or heavy goods vehicles.
in writing. ‒ we voted this afternoon in favour of the implementation of ecall following an agreement reached with all parties. in the event of an accident, your car's ecall system will automatically dial 112. all new vehicles sold in the european union from 31 march 2018 onwards will be required to be fitted with them. the aim is to save 2500 lives annually across europe by reducing the time to intervention by half and saving 26 billion euros. a possible extension of the system to other types of vehicles, such as trucks or motorcycles, will be considered in 2021. the final obstacle to the validation of this text was the issue of data protection, an area in which i was also responsible. we have decided: - that the data will be processed only in the context of the accident and deleted at the end of the emergency; - that any system providing for an exchange between ecall and a third party system will be prohibited. privacy and security can thus go hand in hand.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal to amend directives 98/70/ec and 2009/28/ec aims at the switch to low greenhouse gas biofuels. conventional biofuels lead to indirect land-use change, which means that, although biofuel crops are grown sustainably, they displace food crops and lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions. the environmental benefits sought are thus negated. for this reason, i welcome the shift from conventional biofuels to those that take indirect land use change into account and hope that this will also create a long-term perspective for sustainable biofuels.
in writing. ‒ co2 emissions from transport play an important role in global warming. the renewable energy directive sets binding targets to be achieved by 2020 to achieve a 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport. directive 98/70/ec provides for a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport by 2020. to achieve these objectives, it is essential to increase the share of advanced biofuels and to limit the contribution of traditional biofuels in the composition of diesel and petrol in the european union. advanced biofuels can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions even when indirect land-use change emissions are taken into account. it is therefore to achieve these objectives and to preserve the environment that i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the final compromise package on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive as i believe that the eu has shown a clear vision on its approach to biofuels and the related indirect land use change. although i voted in favour, i nevertheless believe that this compromise package fails to address some opportunities for a further use of industrial waste streams as renewable fuels. i firmly believe that firms that can reuse carbon, through the addition of bacteria to its industrial waste streams (co2 bio-fermentation of industrial waste streams), should be considered (at least) twice their energy content in annex ix. this should not be conditional upon being renewable according to article 2a, but should rather be based on respecting the sustainability criteria (60% ghg reduction vis-à-vis fossil fuels).
in writing. ‒ the reform of biofuels policy is necessary. biofuels were hailed as the solution to renewable energy in transport 10 years ago, but they have proved to be unsatisfactory and sometimes even problematic. for example, more land is being used to produce biofuels from agricultural crops, resulting in deforestation, increased co2 emissions and rising food prices, especially in developing countries. the n-va therefore supports the new rules on biofuel production, which are a policy shift in the right direction and restrict conventional biofuels based on agricultural crops. however, this is done in a workable, consistent and realistic manner so as not to jeopardise the security of investment. the n-va also supports the development of advanced biofuels but considers it too early for a binding target. we are therefore satisfied with the indicative target of 0.5% by 2020. the technology for these advanced biofuels is still in its infancy. we don't want to risk making the same mistakes as in the past. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the directive amending the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, which limits the contribution of conventional biofuels, improves the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes by raising the minimum greenhouse gas emission reduction levels for new installations and encourages greater market penetration of so-called 'advanced' biofuels. it is essential to promote sustainable biofuels, i.e. produced from waste or plant residues, so that their production does not harm the food needs of the population and livestock.
in writing. ‒ driving or eating, you'll have to choose, for a few years at least. the european agreement on biofuels adopted today by the european parliament's plenary is not a major reform. this is a compromise in the classic sense of the term, which, while providing a clear legislative framework for the production of biofuels, from the first to the third generation, while protecting the investments already made in agricultural crops, does not take a clear position. the new legislation states that first generation biofuels (mainly rapeseed or palm oil) should not account for more than 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. these agrofuels were promising a decade ago, but they have the major disadvantage of putting food prices under pressure. the rest has been done by the timidity of the member states, which have not been able to unlock the investments in the biofuels of the future, produced from waste or innovative technologies based on micro-organisms. as the rapporteur, my liberal colleague nils torvalds, said: 'we have not been fully successful in opening up the market for more advanced biofuels'. that's a euphemism for "not at all".
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament formally endorsed the agreement reached in the trilogue on the draft legislation to promote more sustainable biofuels that protect the interests of developing countries and the climate. the draft directive aims to cap the use of agrofuels in transport by 2020, to accelerate the production of advanced biofuels such as algae and waste, which do not compete with food production, and to take into account the iluc factor (for 'indirect land-use change') in order to account for greenhouse gas emissions related to the production of these first generation agrofuels. the main thrust of the text adopted is to limit the use of first generation biofuels to 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. fuel suppliers shall report to the member states and the commission on the estimated level of greenhouse gas emissions related to indirect land-use change. the commission will then publish the data on these iluc-related emissions. by the end of 2017, the commission should assess the possibility of including iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for biofuels.
in writing. - we would have liked more, though. among our regrets: - we were asking for a ceiling of 5%. less would not be acceptable given the investments made by the sector in this area, since the current share at european level is 4.5%. this is no small matter, since each percentage of agrofuels represents just over one million hectares of land that is taken away from food production, i.e. almost the entire arable area of a country like belgium. we also wanted binding targets for advanced agrofuels (second and third generation), whereas the agreement provides only for an incentive. i am in favour of these advanced biofuels. they use only the inedible parts of the plants and agricultural waste. the lack of binding objectives in this area is a mistake. first generation agrofuels have too negative an impact on food production and deforestation. the agreement does not go as far as we could have hoped, but it is still a step in the right direction. we must promote biofuels produced from waste or plant residues which do not compete with human or animal food. the future of the planet's food, environment and society is at stake.
in writing. ‒ directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste fails to regulate the use of lightweight plastic bags (wall thickness below 50 microns). however, these lightweight plastic carrier bags contribute significantly to the union-wide waste burden, as they are not particularly suitable for reuse due to their lightweight material and therefore usually end up in the waste immediately. the legal framework for this problem differs from one member state to another, and some of these are exemplary. in order to ensure a uniform and high standard throughout the eu and to reduce the waste burden across the union, i welcome the amendments which have been tabled.
‒ the high consumption of plastic bags less than 50 microns thick has a major impact on the environment within the european union. too many plastic bags end up in nature and have a detrimental impact on the ecosystem. it is estimated that it takes several hundred years for a plastic bag to decompose. plastic bags are therefore responsible for a considerable amount of wild waste. to reduce pollution and protect the environment, it is therefore necessary for member states to adopt economic measures and marketing restrictions aimed at drastically reducing the use of plastic bags. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. – europeans use about 99 million plastic bags every year. a rough 8 million plastic bags end up in our environment, both on land and at sea. although the consumption of plastic bags varies across the member states, parliament strongly believes that we can do better. that is why i follow the commission in its proposal to reduce the use of plastic bags to 90 bags per person per year in 2019 and to reduce this amount to 40 bags in 2025. i voted in favour of reducing lightweight carrier bags as the member states receive the freedom to choose how they will reach these targets. in the meantime i am convinced that it is also important that europeans make a mentality switch. we must become more conscious of our impact on the environment in general.
‒ plastic bags are a major source of pollution worldwide and a serious threat to wildlife (in the north sea, 94% of birds have already ingested plastic). it appears that the average european uses 190 plastic bags a year and 89% of these are used only once. of the 100 billion plastic bags used annually by europeans, 8 billion are estimated to end up in lakes, rivers, countryside and roadsides. given that it takes 500 years for a plastic bag to decompose, it is essential to adopt new rules to drastically limit the use of lightweight plastic bags. eu countries will have to choose between two approaches: either reduce the number of lightweight plastic bags used per person (90 bags/person/year by the end of 2019 and 40 bags/person/year by 2025), or stop giving out free bags in food outlets by the end of 2018, as is already the case in some eu countries. that's my preferred option.
in writing. in europe, the problem of plastic bags is serious. on average, each european uses up to 200 plastic bags a year, most of which are disposed of after a single use. the european parliament has launched a new campaign to reduce this consumption and thus better protect the environment. to do this, we set two distinct goals. states will either have to reduce the average annual consumption of plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per capita by the end of 2019 or ensure that no more lightweight plastic bags are given to customers for free by 2018. by adopting this report, the european union is reinforcing its commitment to better protect the environment for the benefit of all.
in writing. ‒ every year, eight billion plastic bags end up as waste in the eu environment, including in the seas, where plastic is often absorbed by animals (94% of north sea birds have plastic in their stomachs). the european union had to react to this invasion of plastic bags that pollute our environment. the vote this afternoon endorses the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council on the reduction of lightweight plastic bags. in practice, member states will have to choose between two approaches: either reduce the number of lightweight plastic bags used per person (no more than 40 bags by 2025); or stop giving out free bags in food outlets by the end of 2018. this seems reasonable given the gap in europe: 4 bags per year per consumer in finland and denmark, compared with 400 in poland and portugal. but this solution is not sustainable and the member states which are lagging behind, and which have forced this compromise downwards from the original commission proposal, must achieve better results.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, each eu citizen used the equivalent of 198 plastic bags per year. this consumption is expected to increase... since 2010, more than 8 billion plastic bags have become waste in the eu. lightweight plastic bags, thinner than 50 microns i.e. the vast majority of bags used in the union are less reusable than thicker models and become waste more quickly. they are also more likely to seriously pollute the environment and aquatic ecosystems. i therefore welcome the vote on this report, which aims to drastically reduce the use of the most commonly used and polluting plastic bags. member states will be able to choose between taking measures to reduce the average annual consumption of non-biodegradable plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per capita by the end of 2019 and to 40 by the end of 2025, or to ensure that no lightweight plastic bags are given to customers free of charge by the end of 2018. the european commission will also have to assess the environmental impact of oxobiodegradable plastics and propose appropriate measures to deal with this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the plastic soup in the oceans needs to be reduced. that is the central objective of the agreement to drastically reduce the use of single-use plastic bags. this is a victory for the environment over the blind deregulation drive of the european commission. the numbers don't lie. in 2010, 88 billion single-use plastic bags were discarded, or 200 bags per eu citizen per year. a lot of this ends up in the water. over 70% of the litter in our european seas is plastic. this plastic soup is then made up of as much as 70 percent plastic bags. this is a disaster for millions of marine animals who die because of the plastic in their stomachs. this agreement will reduce the presence of plastic in the oceans. it also shows how green politicians, like rapporteur margrete auken, are really thinking about reducing the burden on our environment through european legislation. mrs auken has ensured that binding targets are proposed. member states now have a choice between two methods. either they cut the use of single-use plastic bags by half by 2019 and by 80% by 2025, or they end the free distribution of plastic bags by 2018.
in writing. ‒ the fact that each european uses 176 plastic bags per year, with little or no reuse, gives an idea of the scale of the environmental consequences. member states will be obliged to reduce the consumption of these thin bags by at least 50% by 2019 and by 80% by 2025. in other words, the citizen who uses 176 bags a year today will use 90 in 2019 and only 40 in 2025. to achieve these objectives, states can use a whole arsenal of tools and will have to carry out awareness-raising campaigns. it should be noted, for example, that the states that have made the payment for single-use plastic bags compulsory have achieved very good results. thin plastic bags are a real environmental disaster. they are among the most collected by volunteers who clean up the world's coastlines and pollute our planet almost irreversibly. this legislation is a big step towards greater respect for our planet and future generations.
in writing. ‒ some 8 billion plastic bags end up in the eu's environment every year. the european parliament and i have voted for a compromise which gives the member states a choice between two options: either reduce the number of plastic bags to a maximum of 40 per person per year by 2025, or ban the free delivery of plastic bags in food shops by 2018. belgium has made a great deal of effort in this area in recent years and is therefore one of the better students. but it's even better when you consider that finland and denmark only consume four bags per person per year.
in writing. ‒ maritime transport is the only form of transport for which the eu has not yet adopted rules to reduce greenhouse gases. the present proposal for a directive provides for the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and auditing emissions. negotiations are currently under way within the imo (international maritime organisation) to implement a global mrv (measurement, reporting and verification) system. such a system is now being introduced throughout europe under this directive; the directive will be reviewed and adapted as necessary as soon as an international convention is concluded. i welcome the new directive, especially since maritime transport contributes at least 6% to the union's total emissions of greenhouse gases.
in writing. ‒ the union has committed itself to reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. the commission estimates that shipping was responsible for 180 mt of co2 emissions in 2010 and these are expected to increase. this is inconsistent with the reduction targets set by the union. it is therefore essential to be able to reduce co2 emissions from maritime transport. however, the precise greenhouse gas emissions from shipping are not yet known. therefore, before considering a gradual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, it is necessary to put in place a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from ships. this mrv system represents the first phase of a programme to reduce co2 emissions from shipping. it is therefore in the interests of combating global warming and protecting the environment that i voted in favour. i believe that this monitoring system is necessary to improve information and to encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the opinion by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) as shipping is an important means of transport and, although an environmentally friendly way, it is also a large and growing source of greenhouse gas emissions. the commission has proposed that owners of large ships using eu ports should report their verified emission from 2018 onwards. i believe this is a good first step towards cutting emissions and reaching our europe 2020 strategy and the kyoto commitment period (2013-2020). with this envi proposal i am convinced that the european union leads by example to major emerging economies. the european union shows that economic growth and emission cuts can go hand in hand.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my portuguese colleague, josé inácio faria, on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. surprisingly, commercial shipping is the only major mode of transport not yet covered by the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. without action, marine ghg emissions are expected to more than double by 2050. this is why the legislation adopted this afternoon is so important, as it is intended to reverse this negative trend and also to ensure a higher level of transparency in the shipping sector. in fact, from 2018, owners of large ships (above a threshold of 5 000 gross tonnes), regardless of their flag, will have to monitor co2 emissions and other climate-related information when travelling within the union and when entering and leaving european territorial waters.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today and i welcome this new provisions requiring ship owners using eu ports to report their co2 emissions every year. the new rules, already informally agreed with the council, will apply from 2018 to ships over 5 000 tonnes, regardless of the country in which they are registered. this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from a sector - shipping - that is still excluded from eu measures to reduce carbon emissions. the new rules establish a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector, to improve information on ship efficiency and emissions, and to encourage emission reductions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text, of course. it is not easy to say why it took so long to legislate in this sector, which is the only one that did not yet have legislation, when it represents 4% of transport emissions.
in writing. ‒ recent surveys show that citizens have very low levels of confidence in economic statistics. since statistics are essential to our work, for example as decision-making tools or indicators, it is important to restore this trust. for these reasons i welcome the proposal to revise the existing rules. particular attention will be paid to ensuring the professional independence of the national statistical authorities, as well as a clear and transparent implementation, control system and sanctioning system for non-compliance with the quality standards.
in writing. ‒ i was the rapporteur on this dossier and therefore i was conducting the negotiations for the european parliament. the aim of this legislation is to achieve a comprehensive reform of the european statistical system in order to restore confidence in european and national statistics. we have succeeded in negotiations: we have improved parliamentary control. the head of eurostat will therefore appear before the econ committee immediately after being appointed and before taking up his duties; to strengthen the independence of the directors of the national statistical institutes in order to avoid political interference in the production of statistics; ensuring equal opportunities, in particular on gender, in national bodies ensuring the independence of producers of statistics; the commission is empowered to carry out on-the-spot inspections to determine whether a statistical misreport is serious and intentional or is the result of negligence. this agreement represents a good result and should lead to the enhancement of the quality of european statistics. this collection will be more transparent. and the european body responsible for collecting these figures will provide analyses that will help us to get a better picture of the situation in each country. this will help to put in place the policies that europeans need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the existing basic legal framework for european statistics. this aims to meet the new needs arising from the evolution of the world economy and to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system. this proposal refers in particular to the independence of the heads of the national statistical institutes in the performance of their tasks as a precondition for the independence of their respective institutes. this revision also clarifies the role of the nsis in coordinating national statistical systems. it also incorporates the need to ensure the independence of eurostat at union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my distinguished colleague, mr hugues bayet, which once again reflected the work presented this afternoon: it was impeccable. the commissioner also welcomed the fact that the council had adopted a new regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ this plan aims to develop a multi-species approach to cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic. this plan will take into account biological interactions, environmental conditions and will be subject to scientific monitoring. it also provides for a more flexible approach to resources through the establishment of annual fishing opportunities. this should allow for a balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, we have had a cod stock management plan in the baltic to keep the stock size within reasonable limits. in other words, maximum catches are set and a series of technical measures are adopted taking into account the characteristics of each stock, the fisheries in which it is found and the economic impact of the measures on the fisheries concerned. the 2008 plan did not cover herring and sprat. the new plan therefore replaces the previous provisions, which is justified as the stocks concerned are interdependent (the cod feeds on sprats and herring, while herring and sprats sometimes feed on cod eggs). this new plan is an important step in the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the multiannual management and the fact that these three interacting species will now be managed by a single plan should make the baltic sea fisheries more sustainable by increasing predictability, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted an important report on fisheries management this afternoon. in this case, the baltic sea was chosen as the first example of application of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) adopted in 2013 in its multi-species management plan component. the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, in particular cod, herring and sprat, which account for more than 94% of the catches made in the baltic sea, as well as fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen. the message from the plenary is the right one: not only does it strengthen the committee on fisheries in its determination to put an end to overfishing and promote management plans as key tools of the cfp, but it also enables parliament's delegation to negotiate in trilogue with a strong position and to free itself from the national interests that are expressed in the council. we hope that the final agreement will be ambitious, because it will be the basis for all future fish stocks management plans in the north sea, the mediterranean and the north-west and south-west atlantic.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan voted today aims to establish a framework for the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks, which account for more than 94% of the catches made in recent years in the baltic sea. this long-awaited plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks and provide fishermen with livelihoods. at the same time, it should ensure management based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the general idea in the commission proposal that a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea is necessary. the multispecies approach is much more effective than the one based on a single species. the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and stable fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen. at the same time, it should ensure management based on the latest scientific advice as regards the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the obligation to land unmarketable bycatches is one of the main lines of the reform of the common fisheries policy. it will be phased in between 2015 and 2019. since this obligation is in contradiction with several existing european regulations, the commission has proposed an 'omnibus' regulation which amends these texts in order to replace discharges to sea by landing.
in writing. i support this report for two reasons. firstly, the commission proposal for a regulation is in line with the objective of the reformed common fisheries policy of progressively eliminating discards in all fisheries in the european union by introducing an obligation to land unintended catches which are not marketable, either because of the absence of a quota or because they are smaller than the minimum conservation reference size. secondly, this initiative was welcome insofar as this landing obligation was in contradiction with several european regulations currently in force.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on today, already informally approved by parliament and the council, now obliges fishermen to land unwanted catches rather than discard them at sea. among the measures taken, the european commission will have to draw up an annual report on the implementation of this landing obligation. a two-year period was provided before penalties for failure to comply with this obligation. and a mechanism has been put in place to prevent the development of a parallel market for non-marketable catches.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i share the view of my colleague, mr cadec, that the legal alignment for fisheries subject to the landing obligation after 2015 will have to be achieved at a later date, in connection with the new framework of technical measures which the commission will propose in a few months' time. the omnibus should therefore only concern the urgent problem of the implementation of the landing obligation for the fisheries concerned in 2015. i support the proposal to abolish the provisions on other fisheries. it stresses that 2015 will be a test year to assess the consequences of the implementation of the landing obligation.
in writing. ‒ on 1 july 2013, croatia joined the european union as its 28th member state. for this reason, croatia is now included as a contracting party to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european commission, the member states of the eu and the russian federation and the protocol is additionally published in croatian. the agreement was concluded in 1997 for a period of 10 years and has been automatically renewed for a period of one year since 2007. this includes, among others, arrangements in areas such as trade, education, energy and political dialogue. i welcome this step, particularly as the agreement is of particular importance for european-russian relations because of its framework function.
in writing. ‒ through the protocol, croatia will be integrated into the eu-russia partnership agreement, which aims in particular to promote trade and investment and to establish economic, financial and technical cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this afternoon parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ in 1999, 29 european countries undertook to establish a european higher education area in the framework of the bologna declaration. 16 years later, the process is being evaluated and then revised. particular success has been achieved in the area of harmonisation and recognition of studies, and the associated increase in the mobility of european students and transnational employability. in addition, europe-wide higher education systems are now more transparent and offer easy and fast access to information. the european higher education area now has 47 members. i welcome the evaluation of the implementation of the bologna process and its further development, in particular to ensure pan-european quality and to optimise the coordination of the different actions such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+.
in writing. ‒ the bologna declaration, signed in june 1999, aimed to create a european higher education area by 2010. today 47 countries are part of the bologna process. the aim of the project was to improve student mobility, the quality of education and the employability of young graduates in education. although bologna is a success on the whole, it needs to be given a new lease of life to overcome the challenges ahead, particularly in the field of youth employment. to achieve the goal of coherent, transparent and high quality higher education, it is crucial to focus on implementing all the tools at our disposal and to put the student back at the centre of the educational paradigm. it is therefore to improve the quality of higher education in europe that i have decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ in june 1999, 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, which aimed to create a european higher education area by 2010, to expand the choice of educational opportunities and to ensure the compatibility of higher education systems in europe. i voted for the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process because it urges the countries of the european higher education area to implement the agreed reforms and stresses the importance of ensuring the mutual recognition of university degrees. education is one of the pillars of our society. it is also a privileged instrument for combating social inequalities and youth unemployment. therefore, member states should be encouraged to increase scholarships and continue to intensify partnerships in order to achieve the european higher education area.
in writing. the bologna declaration, drawn up in june 1999, had as its main objective the creation of a european higher education area by 2010. the aim of this new european area was to offer students a wider choice of quality courses and a simplified procedure for the recognition of both internal and external qualifications. after more than ten years, it is appropriate to carry out an evaluation and follow-up of the implementation of the bologna process. quality higher education is essential for the cultural, economic and social development of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is essential for the development of societies. the european parliament intends today, by its ambitious vote, to give new colour and energy to a process which is running out of breath. while the main priority for many countries is to ensure the quality of higher education, there is also an urgent need to put the student at the centre of learning, by ensuring financial support, international mobility and improving social inclusion. twenty-nine countries signed the bologna declaration in 1999. today, more than 47 countries are committed to creating a genuine european higher education area (ehea), building growth and a knowledge-based economy. there are successes, fortunately the recognition of university degrees or the three-cycle structure (bachelor-master-doctorate) , but we are still far from the initial objectives. other interesting avenues to be explored are those of new technologies, such as online courses accessible to all, the very popular moocs (massive open online course). it is also crucial to focus on synchronising financial measures taken in support of the bologna process, such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+, to address new european challenges.
in writing. ‒ in june 1999, 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, which aimed to create a european higher education area by 2010. one of the first objectives of the bologna process is that a student enrolled in a european university has the right to obtain a degree in any member state and to have it recognised throughout the european union. progress has already been made in the areas of higher education structures, harmonisation and quality, mobility and employability. the report adopted focuses in particular on the importance of making the best use of available funds and finding new funding models, and on the need to reinforce the bologna process in the important role it can play in the revision of the europe 2020 strategy and, above all, in the investment plan for europe presented by jean-claude juncker.
in writing. ‒ how can you vote against such a report? it is also an opportunity to recall that our desire for a coherent, transparent and high-quality higher education sector is essential for cultural, economic and social development. the bologna objectives provide the essential tools for higher education in europe to meet the challenges of our time. however, there is still a long way to go before these objectives can be fully achieved. while the process has many successes, including strong structural convergence, new challenges have replaced the old ones. to address these and to give a new impetus to the process, it is essential to focus on the proper implementation of the current structure and tools, to correct their shortcomings and to move towards an educational paradigm that places the student and the acquired skills at the centre of learning.
in writing. ‒ european cinema is an important medium for promoting and disseminating cultural diversity across europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. therefore, specific investments are needed to improve the cross-border availability of works. this is ensured in particular by the promotion of subtitling and dubbing. it is also essential to ensure the widespread digitisation of films to prevent the loss of works, as has unfortunately happened to many silent films. i welcome measures in the field of european cinema and in particular events such as the brussels short film festival, which is currently taking place, to enable the distribution of cinematographic works throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ the world of cinema plays a key role in the constitution of a european cultural heritage. in 2014, european cinema set a new record: 1,500 european films were screened in the union. that's twice the number of american movies. however, the number of viewers is still far below that of the films from across the atlantic. to address this problem, it is necessary to extend the distribution of european films to new distribution channels such as video-on-demand services and streaming. more money must also be invested in promoting films and in their international distribution. the creative europe programme, which has a budget of €1.5 billion for the period 2014-2020, aims to improve the distribution, visibility and accessibility of european films. i therefore voted in favour of this report in order to support european culture and the film industry.
in writing. ‒ the european film industry has a major impact on the european cultural landscape as well as on employment and economic growth. however, most films produced in europe are only released in their country of origin (only 8% are distributed outside the eu). in the face of american films which are much more widely distributed in europe, securing a wider audience for european productions is a challenge for european cinema. the distribution of public subsidies is one explanation for the distribution problem: almost 70% of these subsidies are devoted to production, leaving little money for marketing/distribution. the report i supported contains several suggestions to stimulate the distribution of european cinema: encouraging subtitling of films (rather than their translation), supporting small cinemas and enabling them to equip themselves with digital projection, financing the digitisation, preservation and online availability of european film heritage and supporting european co-productions to lead to a wider distribution of films.
in writing. unlike the american film industry, european cinema is currently characterised by a heterogeneous structure in terms of both funding mechanisms and types of productions. as a result, distribution is largely limited to the country of origin, but, above all, this complicates promotion outside the european union. the cinema sector has a direct impact on the european cultural landscape, as well as on employment and economic growth. i therefore welcome this report which stresses the importance of stimulating the distribution of european cinema and of exploiting its full cultural and economic potential.
‒ "culture shapes the soul of europe. a film induces a sense of identity like no other medium, it is the very reflection of our society, its values, its hopes and fears". perhaps inspired by wim wenders, the european parliament this afternoon encouraged the european film industry to continue developing new business models to improve the distribution of its films. in 2014, europe produced and distributed nearly 1,500 works in its own market, whereas the united states did half as well in its own market. poor promotion and fierce international competition mean that european productions still have difficulty crossing national borders. quick and easy to access, video on demand and online files could be an innovative way to facilitate access to european films for viewers. it is essential to continue to develop film education in school curricula, festivals, and awards such as the lux prize. in 2014, the european parliament awarded "ida". this film has allowed thousands of citizens to share the extraordinary fate of this young polish nun in search of identity.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today aims to broaden the audience for european films. it emphasises the need to improve the overall effectiveness of the financing instruments already in place to promote the competitiveness and diversity of the european film sector. given the cultural and economic potential of the audiovisual sector, the european film industry should develop within a stable and adaptable legal framework that encourages investment and diversity and allows for the development of new online services. the text adopted thus focuses on several points, such as the development of the sector, crossborder promotion and distribution, financing and programmes supporting the audiovisual sector, film and media education, instruments for the production and distribution of european films, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the report on european cinema in the digital age aims to support european cinema and encourage its promotion, distribution and visibility in order to enable all europeans to benefit from their cultural heritage. the european parliament's lux prize is a perfect example of how european cinema should be promoted. each year, the prize focuses on films that address issues affecting european public opinion. the ability of cinema to convey cultural values across cultures makes it the ideal tool for a debate on europe and its future. in the context of the current economic, political and social crises, which also threaten art, culture and cinema, the lux prize offers a solid springboard for european creativity.
in writing. ‒ sustainable forest management and a functioning and balanced ecosystem guarantee quality of life, sustainability, jobs and sustainable value for ourselves and future generations. i therefore welcome the measures taken under the new eu forestry strategy, in particular to strengthen cooperation between the individual member states without having to interfere too much with national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the forestry sector is crucial to the well-being of the european economy. with 3.5 million jobs, the forestry sector is the third largest employer in the european union, just behind metallurgy and the food industry. in a context where an increasing number of policies (energy, environment, climate, etc.) influence the management of our forests, it is essential to adopt a new european forestry strategy to ensure coherence and coordination between the different actions. this strategy will provide a global overview of actions in the field of european forestry. it is therefore for reasons of consistency and protection of our natural heritage that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we need a new common forestry strategy (the current one has been in place since 1998) focused on sustainable management, promoting the use of raw forest products and increasing the competitiveness of the forestry industry. forests cover about 40% of the eu. 60% are private. the forestry sector employs over 3 million people. a new strategy is needed to address cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change, natural disasters, but also to strengthen forest industries and improve the efficient use of raw materials such as wood and wood products. a new strategy will boost the competitiveness of eu forestry, improve its self-sufficiency in timber, reduce its trade deficit and boost employment in the sector. in addition, as energy demand increases, forests are expected to play a greater role in the eu's future energy mix. the review of the effectiveness of the timber regulation to combat illegal logging and the placing of illegal timber on the eu market must also be finalised. finally, an action plan should be developed to prevent deforestation and forest degradation.
in writing. the importance of forests and their benefits to our society are no longer to be demonstrated. wood, as a sustainable raw material, is an important resource in europe, and 40% of the european territory is covered by forests. in this context, it was important to strengthen the eu's forestry strategy to meet new cross-border challenges. this will include promoting the sustainable use of wood and other forest materials to create jobs and stimulate growth, as well as improving forest management and exploitation, all while reducing red tape.
in writing. ‒ the preservation of our forests is one of the major challenges of the 21st century. the urbanization of society is gradually leading to a loss of knowledge about forests and forestry. the effects on man are many and vital to his survival: jobs, climate, environment, health, food, consumer goods, etc. we are dependent on our forests. in the midst of our crowded cities, far from the small forest of our childhood, it is not always obvious to realize... that is why i gave my full support this afternoon to the new eu strategy for forests and the forestry sector. by adopting this new strategy, the european parliament fully reaffirms its policy of sustainable forest management to ensure their long-term conservation for future generations. these lungs of the earth cover 159 million hectares, or 40% of the european territory. with over 3.5 million jobs, they are a true economic pillar, second only to the metal and food industries. clearly, europe's forests deserve more than just attention, and their management is a priority. if we preserve them well, we can build the world we leave to our children.
in writing. ‒ forests and other wooded areas cover more than 40% of the territory of the european union. the forest area has increased by 0.4% per year in recent decades. the text voted today establishes a framework for action to promote forestry coordination and the creation of synergies with other sectors that have an impact on forest management. the text focuses in particular on the sustainable management of forests and ecosystem services, on how to meet the growing demand for renewable energy and raw materials used in products, on the challenges facing the forest industry and on managing transnational threats to forests, such as forest fires and forest pests. the report also stresses the need to ensure that forest resources and forestry materials are used and reused efficiently, but opposes legally binding rules that favour the use of wood.
in writing. - as in the committee a few weeks ago, i voted in favour of this report. it is essential for the proper implementation of the strategy to have a specific long-term action plan that emphasises the importance of mobilising and using sustainable forest-based wood to create added value and jobs, while providing means to strengthen private forestry and support organised forest ownership structures.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, by adopting this report, the european parliament will send a strong message to the council. we are indeed saying yes to the european public prosecutor's office but no to a costly, inefficient bureaucratic structure which is dependent on the member states, which far too often take refuge behind the principle of sovereignty, mr kirkhope, to do nothing. the fight against fraud is above all a matter of ethics, which aims to strengthen the rule of law and put an end to the situations of impunity, which are still far too numerous. it is up to europe to defend its financial interests without having to depend on the goodwill of the member states. the european public prosecutor's office will enable the union to achieve its ambitions. many states play a double game: they praise the european judiciary in public, but in the backyard they empty it of its substance by maintaining almost total control over its exercise. only the independence of the european public prosecutor's office will allow it to bring real added value. i am glad that the european parliament proposes in this report a series of concrete measures to this end. independence is mainly reflected - ms kaufmann said - in the process of appointing prosecutors, in the allocation of competences giving priority to the european public prosecutor's office and in its structure, where chambers composed of several prosecutors hold the real power. i just want to remind the council that the european parliament will have the last word on this matter. it would be appropriate for him to take account of the opinion of this house. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, the question is whether i am suspicious of the member states. yes, i am suspicious of certain member states, clearly. a whole series of fraud cases are still pending in the member states. these too often play the card of their interests, of their view of sovereignty, to escape or to allow some to escape from judgment and, therefore, to establish impunity. that is why i am in favour of centralisation, so that we have an increasingly single system of jurisprudence.
i am in favour of effective fraud prevention and efficient use of public funds. however, this does not mean that the creation of the european public prosecutor's office as an independent european public prosecutor's office is the right solution. we already have eurojust, which is responsible for judicial cooperation, and olaf, which is responsible for combating administrative fraud. in other words, there is a better way to deal with this. in fact, the creation of the emi amounts to a waste of taxpayers' money. article 86 of the eu treaty explicitly states that the eppo is to be derived from the existing eurojust. in addition, it can only be stated that the pif directive, which lists offences which would fall within the competence of the eppo, is still stuck in the trialogue negotiations. the commission's proposal is therefore wrong in its approach and timing. what is the point of making a number of recommendations to the council in the margins as a condition for our agreement?
the potential for contagion to the real economy is high, given the nature of money market funds. i have doubts on principle whether the extension of the tasks and powers of the european union is a good solution here, even though the considerable buffers, greater transparency and so on provided for are obvious measures. but at the same time, it is said that "it is the external ratings that can generate runs". well, this is a little bit like shooting the piano player. it is naive to think that internal rating according to eu standards will suddenly solve all problems such as asymmetric information and adverse selection. i am therefore not here today as a footman for the banking lobby, but as a sober member of parliament who wants to warn against naïve views. i can see it in my mind, the path that people want to take in the long run: a kind of socialist politburo, aka eu rating agency that will promote ratings of, for example, greek government bonds and consorts as 'top' and 'extremely safe' in line with official eu policy and that external rating agencies must keep quiet about. i 'll say: no, thank you.
for the greens/efa group this discharge, ladies and gentlemen, marks the end of the last budgetary period of the multiannual budget which ended in 2013. so it's time to draw conclusions. the margin of error, at an average of 4.7%, remains well above the acceptable figure of 2%. it is very important to know that the error rate in the shared management policy areas is 5.2%. we all know that the member states should have known or knew that certain sums should not have been paid. so i agree with mr caldeira when he says that we must act against it. it is very important - as mrs gräßle has so well pointed out in her report - that we hold the member states to account and that we make national or regional ministers who fail to act take their political responsibility and act very clearly in that regard.
seven million young people out of work. it is a downright hallucinatory figure, an untenable situation. with seven million young people out of work, we are putting a very heavy mortgage not only on their future but also on the future prosperity of the union as a whole. this has to change and fast! this agreement is an important step. by giving a financial boost to the youth employment initiative, young people in the worst affected regions should be helped to find a decent job, traineeship or training place. the speed with which the european parliament and the council have dealt with this matter also shows that europe does work and can work quickly when it has to. it shows a europe that is big on big things. it is now up to the member states to use these funds to set up effective projects as quickly as possible. with a 30% european advance payment there is simply no excuse for delay. but let it be clear that this additional pre-financing is only one step, and more will be needed to redress this painful situation. we will need to continue to work towards a comprehensive long-term strategy with better matching of skills to demand, more entrepreneurship among young people, quality traineeships, a more flexible labour market and, of course, sustainable jobs. this stimulus was badly needed and the ball is now in the member states' court. but the most important question we have to ask today is not: what are the member states going to do about it now? no, the only question we have to ask ourselves is: what's next? every good chess player thinks several steps ahead. let us do the same to eliminate youth unemployment once and for all.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2016, the committee on budgets wanted to stress from the outset the need to take account of the general context of budgetary restraint prevailing in all our countries and therefore to propose a draft budget for 2016, which is realistic, but very tight in terms of the increase in appropriations. we have therefore agreed from the outset, firstly, that the european parliament's budget for 2016 should be below 20% of the total administrative expenditure of the union and, secondly, that the increase in current operating appropriations, compared with 2015, should not exceed 1.6%. it should be added, however, that the deadly terrorist attacks of recent months and, more generally, the persistence, if not the aggravation, of these threats have led us to give a very special place to the problem of security. so, in addition to the 1.6% increase in the current budget, we decided to create an exceptional allocation of eur 15 million to strengthen the security of the european parliament buildings, particularly in brussels, and to allocate a significant part of the appropriations to strengthening cyber security, which all experts agree is both necessary and urgent in the european parliament. once this general framework was set, we focused on the operational priorities to be implemented for 2016 and, in fact, we agreed on the need to strengthen a single priority, namely the strengthening of the financial means to enable us to better perform our work as parliamentarians. since the treaty of lisbon - as you all know - we have considerably increased our powers in the area of legislation. a considerable effort has already been made to strengthen the staff of parliamentary committees in this area, but we remain too ill equipped to exercise real control over the delegated and implementing acts which directly result from our legislative activity. we have therefore proposed a number of measures, on which we have agreed with the council. the first measure is to increase the number of secretaries of parliamentary committees, which have to scrutinise a large number of delegated acts, implementing acts or multi-decision programmes, by 20 new posts. secondly, a request to the bureau which accepted it to develop and implement new regulations to ensure a better balance between accredited and local assistants. it is clear to all people of good faith that accredited assistants are essential to enable a member of the european parliament to carry out his work as a co-legislator and a supervisor of the executive effectively. thirdly, in addition to the measure i have just mentioned, it was also decided, at the request of certain political groups and, later, of the bureau, to increase what is commonly known as the secretarial allowance. this measure, unlike the previous one, was not widely accepted. some political groups and individual colleagues have not considered it appropriate or necessary. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. the agreement which finally was reached between the bureau and the committee on budgets on this subject is explicitly based on a very clear premise: the appropriations needed to finance this implementation will only be released after the bureau has drawn up satisfactory new regulations to increase the number of accredited assistants and to better control local assistants by limiting their number. fourthly, the evaluation of a member's performance is not only, and not primarily, a question of quantity but of quality, that is to say, of content. the current systems of classification of parliamentarians unfortunately lead to certain deviations which must be put to an end. the bureau and the committee on budgets have therefore agreed to ask the conference of presidents to ensure that new rules on written questions are put in place to put an end to their incredible inflation, which in too many cases is of little or no interest. in view of the general framework and the priorities i have just mentioned, the bureau and the committee on budgets finally agreed to reduce the bureau's initial estimates by eur 11 822 000. we have postponed the review of the kad's housing policy and financing arrangements until autumn. i thank my colleagues, in particular the fictitious rapporteurs from the other political groups, the staff of the committee secretariat, who have done a remarkable job, and the staff of the political groups for their help. i thank you, mr president.
europe is facing a problem of credibility. there is a gap between the european union and the citizen. the european union is lacking in support. it's an analysis we've been doing for years. it's an analysis we keep repeating. unfortunately, the lessons are not being learned. for 20 years the european court of auditors has been rejecting the budget, but for 20 years the european parliament has been deciding to approve it. year after year we also see the european union asking for more money, while member states and citizens are faced with serious savings. and now there is a proposal on the table to increase the staff budget of members of parliament by eur 1 500 per month. ladies and gentlemen, we will never strengthen the support for the european union in this way! the n-va votes against, the ecr group votes against. i am also glad that several other flemish members of parliament have announced that they will vote against. unfortunately, i fear that will not be enough. i would ask them to persuade their groups to do the same, so that we can give a unanimous signal tomorrow for more support for europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, let me first answer two specific questions. the first was the number of questions. we can't delete the questions, mr. marias, we can always ask more! if you follow me, tomorrow they will be limited to five parliamentary sessions per month, which means 60 for a parliamentary year. you should know that 80% of parliamentarians ask less than 60 questions a year. just under 20% of members are responsible for more than half of all the questions asked, most of which - let me say this - are of no interest to the public. (interruption by mr viegas) you have the right to think as you think, i have the right to think as i think and i have the right to say it. if you want, take a green card and call me, i'll answer. the second question concerned the implementation of the reform aimed at achieving a better balance between accredited and parliamentary assistants. the bureau is planning for this reform to take effect on 1 january 2016, although a six-month transition period may be requested because some parliamentarians have contracts that cannot be terminated unilaterally and without notice. if i had made that budget, it would have been totally different. but i am only a rapporteur and as such i have an obligation to try first to find agreement and a majority within the committee on budgets and then to reach agreement with the bureau. the compromise is necessarily saying a number of things that we like and a number of things that we dislike. i accept the criticisms made by everyone else, and especially by all those who have intervened in good faith. we're entitled to have different opinions. but there is one thing i cannot stand: it is populist criticism. some of the speeches suggest that in the budget or draft budget which we have decided on now and which we will put to the vote tomorrow, there are provisions for members to put more money in their pockets! that is not true, and i challenge any member of parliament to prove otherwise! we have taken steps to help members do their parliamentary work better and do it in a more responsible way. i therefore do not accept political criticism and populist criticism. if today we see a certain number of citizens rejecting the european union, there are people here who are saying things that are leading them to do so. i regret it and i denounce it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr tusk, who are you afraid of? hundreds of thousands of men and women who have had to leave their homes - something neither you nor i would gladly do - to escape war, persecution, the destruction of their livelihoods? in the face of this humanitarian challenge, what you and your fellow heads of state or government have chosen as the attitude is containment. in other words, to keep these hundreds of thousands of people in a war zone, so that we can then look the other way and act as if nothing had happened. that's not very nice. unworthy of a europe which is, as president juncker has said, one of the richest continents in the world - a wealth that is very unequally shared, to be sure, but a very real wealth. it is also unworthy of a europe which often boasts of being the cradle of human rights and which never misses an opportunity to give lessons to the rest of the world. we expect a different attitude from the heads of state or government. you've got to be strong! listen to president juncker, who is one of your men! first thing, set up a real search and rescue operation. tripling a budget that is relatively meagre is a step forward, but what is needed is a properly funded, pan-european mare nostrum operation. there is no point in strengthening frontex, which is not in the business. we must also decide that europe will take its fair share of the burden of taking in war refugees. while a country like lebanon is hosting up to 25% of its population of war refugees - imagine, this is unsustainable - europe is struggling to host one refugee per thousand inhabitants. and yet this effort is shared by only a very small number of member states... we are also waiting for the european union to set up a legal and safe immigration channel. if you want to control a process, the best way is to make it legal. making it illegal is losing control. in europe, ladies and gentlemen, politicians have chosen to exploit the legitimate fears of many of our citizens, especially the poorest. so they play on fear by making the immigrant a potential criminal or even a terrorist. we think it is irresponsible and unworthy for heads of state or government to do the same. i would simply like to remind you that all human beings are born free and equal in rights and dignity. everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person. that is what the universal declaration of human rights tells us. mr tusk, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, rise to the occasion!
blue-card question.– it is not the first time that we have had these kinds of exchanges. i would just like to remind you that many of the terrorist attacks that your united kingdom has suffered were actually acts by your nationals – not imported terrorists, but people who were home-grown. so i am not sure that any of your answers are an answer to that issue.
it is absolutely unacceptable that entire families are facing drowning. i am often asked why the 28 eu countries do not sit together on solutions for legal migration routes, such as resettlement and relocation. the answer is that this goodwill is very far-fetched, given that some member states are barely able to cope with the irregular influx of refugees. this is because certain southern european member states do not apply the common european asylum system too rigorously. the european union is currently facing a de facto system of forced relocation within the eu. refugees entering through southern europe are moving north in droves. i am very pleased that the european council last thursday mentioned this as the first item on the subject of 'strengthening internal solidarity and responsibility'. mr juncker, your quota proposal means in practice that countries such as germany, sweden, belgium and the united kingdom, which are already taking in a relatively large number of refugees, will once again be able to foot the bill. is that the european solidarity you have in mind? i am also very pleased to hear that the eu will take a stronger stance against smugglers. this is absolutely necessary, because they have hundreds of people dead on their hands. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. but more development aid is not the solution as long as corruption and human rights abuses continue. in africa, almost as much money is lost through corruption as is brought in through development aid. how will that be dealt with?
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate president juncker on his remarks and on the saving tone he has given them, expressing a sincerity that cannot be doubted. i'd like to make a small correction. i am tired of hearing, systematically, as if in a sermon, that the cause of this tragedy is mainly europe. europe is not the cause of this tragedy. the latter is due, firstly, to bad governance in the countries of origin, then to the smugglers and, it is true, also to a lack of collective and solidarity-based action on the part of all the european member states. i am sorry for mr juncker, who has had to deal with - it must be said - a very great egoism on the part of some member states. secondly, i do not believe that fortress europe is the answer. we must find legal ways quickly to absorb, in a regulated and humane way, of course, the applicant migrants. (the president withdrew the floor) (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, first of all i would like to say that i am only moderately pleased with the way i have been treated in my speaking time. i'm telling you. i do not wish to answer an outrageous question, which expresses a rather hateful feeling. i don't see how answering your sordid question is going to add anything to the debate! this is only undermining european values. i do not wish to answer that question. (applause) i would like to thank
the images of refugees attempting to cross from africa to europe in old boats are burned into everyone's retinas. it is unacceptable that the mediterranean sea should become a mass grave. in the short term, we must find solutions to cope with the influx of refugees. we must make sure that there are no more deaths to be mourned. that is why we must do everything possible to save the refugees who are making this dangerous crossing. but we cannot solve the complex problems of africa in europe. in order to halt the flow of refugees in the long term, we must work on a future perspective for africa. it is time for an ambitious overall project for africa. this should be launched at the next eu-africa summit: a start of a new deal for africa. a plan like this only has a chance of success if it's a win-win situation. for example, there are several opportunities for successful renewable energy production in north africa. it is time to invest in such projects. the juncker plan can be used for this purpose.
in writing. the results of the european council are downright disappointing. president juncker goes further and at least sticks his neck out for the asylum seekers. he's going all out for a geographic spread plan. member states must show understanding and solidarity by investing in an approach that saves lives. the urgency is great. never before have so many boat refugees died in such a short time. we need decisive action that saves lives. triton needs to be a real search and rescue operation. the eu budget should make room for such an operation. the total cost would be 0.05% of the budget. as long as there are conflicts in the region, people will flee. as long as there are no legal routes, refugees will take the risk and board old boats. but we also need to look inside ourselves and see the bigger picture: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because of this hopelessness, many people are moving to europe. it is also these processes that are generating a migratory pressure towards europe. the link between trade, agricultural and investment policies, hunger and migration must be urgently placed on the political agenda.
in writing. human trafficking is a multi-billion dollar market. flying from africa to europe can be done for a good 400 euros on a commercial flight. yet, refugees choose to pay between 1,000 and 2,300 euros for a death march across the mediterranean. the council is reacting in a way that is unworthy of europe, the cradle of human rights. europe is only taking in 5 percent of syrian refugees. we're going to take in 5,000 more. the real problem is: we have no european migration and asylum policy, which allows member states to pass problems on to each other. the mediterranean tragedy is indicative of the european disease which is also part of our response to the economic crisis, social dumping and the fight against tax evasion: the other person has to solve the problems themselves. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this is member state-centricism. this is a matter of the heart of the european project, which can only be credible if it is based on solidarity. if europe is a project of values, we can only pursue those values in solidarity. if we do not, support for the union will continue to decline.
mr president, i fully support the proposal by my colleague, mr richard corbett, with one exception: not all the czarnecki reports are concerned, because in my group we are going as far as the report on the european gnss agency. the following report, numbered a8-0103/2015, is the subject of a different vote. so we should go to page 60... no, the gnss report can be included. then there's a different vote. we have 25 reports, but the latest czarnecki reports can't be related...
in writing. ‒ welcomes the fact that the union's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the situation of the union as at 31 december 2013, and notes with satisfaction that the revenue underlying the accounts for the financial year ended 31 december 2013 is legal and regular in all material respects. it also notes with satisfaction that the commitments underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 december 2013 are, in all material respects, legal and regular. it stressed that it was unacceptable that payments remained, for the 20th consecutive year, affected by a significant level of error. it therefore stresses the need to continuously improve the management and control systems in the member states in order to ensure better financial management of union funds and a decrease in the error rate in the action areas concerned during the 2014-2020 programming period. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament voted on the discharge for the 2013 general budget of the commission and the executive agencies. the discharge procedure is an important tool for the european parliament to check the proper use of european funds and the effectiveness of the various union policies. i was keen to support the original, balanced text of paragraph 235 on the diversion of european humanitarian aid to the people of the tindouf camps in algeria, by rejecting the partisan amendment tabled by the socialists and the greens. in these hellish camps in southwestern algeria, thousands of sahrawi refugees are trying to survive, waiting for humanitarian aid to trickle in. a report by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has highlighted the diversion of humanitarian aid from the european union to the people held in these camps. the worst example is the polisario, which does not hesitate to confiscate aid and sell it to its leaders. the resolution also calls on the commission to take effective measures to ensure that european humanitarian aid is no longer misappropriated or diverted by malicious actors and calls on the commission to adapt its aid to the real needs of the population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. in so doing, the president of parliament has been instructed to forward this decision and the resolution forming an integral part of it to the council, the commission, the court of justice of the european union, the court of auditors and the european investment bank, as well as to the national parliaments and national and regional audit institutions of the member states, and to arrange for their publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ with some 4.8 million young people aged 15-24 currently unemployed, youth employment is one of the european union's top priorities. it has therefore developed a number of instruments for member states to combat this serious problem. the youth employment initiative is one such instrument and contributes to the political objectives of the youth guarantee (providing unemployed young people with a quality job, training or traineeship within 4 months) in regions where the unemployment rate is above 25%. however, the original pre-financing rules, particularly as regards co-financing, meant that this instrument could not be used by the member states. in order to provide the necessary impetus for youth employment projects, the commission has proposed to increase the pre-financing rate from the current 1% to 30%, which de facto results in a eur 1 billion advance being released. in view of the urgency of the situation, i am pleased that parliament has approved this proposal by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ to tackle youth unemployment, the eu has launched the youth employment initiative to help particularly the most affected areas. unfortunately, because of the lack of sufficient public resources, member states have not made sufficient use of this tool for launching projects to offer young people a job, a traineeship or training. the commission therefore proposes to release €1 billion to allow a shift from 1% to 30% of project pre-financing from 2015. i can of course only support this initiative as youth employment must be the first priority.
in writing. ‒ the youth employment initiative's funding for the period 2014-2020 is €3.2 billion, with an additional €3 billion coming from member states' allocations from the european social fund. in february the commission adopted 28 (out of 34) operational programmes implementing this youth employment initiative. all could receive one third of the allowances in advance as soon as the amended rules come into force. this is of paramount importance. the number of unemployed people aged 15-25 who are neither in education nor in training is increasing alarmingly every year. i supported the adoption of the financing plan because i hope that these european funds will be able to help the member states to implement effective programmes and initiatives with a long-term effect, which some estimate will involve the employment of 650,000 young people.
in writing. i support the commission's proposal to insert in the european social fund regulation a provision providing for additional initial pre-financing for operational programmes supported under the youth employment initiative. the prefinancing rate would be increased from 1 to 1.5% to a maximum of 30%. the european union has already set up the youth employment initiative for the period 2014-2020 with a budget of €3.2 billion. economic recovery depends largely on active, creative, committed, dynamic and courageous youth.
in writing. when our institutions really work hand in hand, things move, the evidence. the european parliament approved this afternoon, and how, the employment commissioner's initiative to release one billion euros to fight youth unemployment! the commitment, already reserved by marianne thyssen, will therefore be available this year, which is almost unprecedented and we can emphasize this! with this european fund, nearly 20 member states will be able to set up projects to combat the 25% youth unemployment rate in europe. the 15-25 year olds who are not in education or training are the most affected by this growing scourge. the amendments to the european social fund provisions approved today will enable some 650,000 young people to enter the world of work and to ensure their social integration. europe can, and is proving to do so today, combine speed and efficiency in record time. she would be well-inspired to do the same in other emergencies! #mrk
in writing. ‒ i welcome this vote which will allow the european commission - at the initiative of marianne thyssen, european commissioner for employment - to pay member states a pre-financing for the youth employment initiative (yei) 30 times higher than the rate originally planned. this legislative proposal to increase the prefinancing rate for the yei was voted on yesterday in strasbourg with a large majority. at present, more than one in five young europeans is unemployed, or 25% of young europeans! although this is still a small drop in the ocean compared to the challenge of youth unemployment in europe, €1 billion will be released in 2015 and 350,000 to 650,000 young people could be affected. for belgium - and in particular brussels, hainaut and liège - this means almost €13 million to set up projects to help young people find jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i hope, however, that in view of the tragedy of youth unemployment, every effort will be made to implement this regulation as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ regulation 3030/93/eec provides for common import arrangements for certain textile products with third countries for which no bilateral agreements exist. however, this regulation has become redundant following the accession of russia to the wto and the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. i therefore welcome the repeal of the regulation, in particular for reasons of legal certainty, and the recast which is being drawn up (the walesa report).
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the eu has maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with russia and serbia. after russia's accession to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, the above-mentioned regulation lost its main purpose.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament this afternoon repealed regulation no 3030/93, following the revision of the common rules applicable to imports of certain textile products from third countries not covered by bilateral protocols or agreements with the european union, and i welcome this. this regulation has lost its purpose after russia's accession to the world trade organisation (wto) and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, the only countries with which the european union has maintained bilateral agreements. the common import arrangements were established in 1994 to promote the orderly and equitable development of trade in textiles between the european community and the supplying countries. #mrk
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. this regulation shall apply to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. i am voting on this because in recent years the european union has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. following the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 lost its main purpose. that is why i voted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by my distinguished colleague mr lange on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, and i followed the advice of our experts on the subject in my political group.
in writing. ‒ this is the codification of the council regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway without any change in substance.
in writing. norway has been a major partner of the european union since 1994 and its integration into the european economic area. as a participant in the single market and in european agencies such as europol and eurojust, it is a valuable ally in foreign policy. any measure aimed at the clarity and transparency of the law is welcome, and that is why i support the proposal to codify the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of norway, of the other part. since the proposal in question is a mere codification of existing texts without any change in their substance, we have instructed the president of parliament to convey our position to the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by mr duda for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. ‒ this is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. since the proposal in question is a mere codification of existing texts without any change in their substance, we have instructed the president of parliament to convey our position to the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by mr duda on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to extend cooperation and stimulate the integration of bosnia and herzegovina into european structures. the ultimate aim is to enable the country to become a full member of the union. the agreement aims in particular to strengthen the rule of law and democracy, to contribute to political and economic stability, to establish a political dialogue, to establish a free trade area, to strengthen cooperation with the eu in the fields of security, freedom and justice, and to align the country's legislation with that of the community.
in writing. ‒ meps voted this afternoon on a stabilisation and association agreement and an interim agreement on trade and accompanying measures with bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to amend council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for the countries and territories participating in and linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. in this case, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take into account the traditional preferential trade between bosnia and herzegovina and croatia in the context of the central european free trade agreement (cefta) which bound the two countries before 1 july 2013, while all western balkan countries that are signatories to the cefta have successfully concluded their negotiations with the union. in view of this deadlock and the damage caused to the union's trade interests, the commission proposes that the autonomous trade measures with regard to bosnia and herzegovina are not automatically extended but made subject to the agreement of bosnia and herzegovina on the union methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement. the union and bosnia and herzegovina shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, as well as in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, as well as in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the two previous texts, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. since the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance, the european parliament instructed its president to forward its position to the council and the commission and to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the proposed new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it and fully preserve their substance.
in writing. i fully support the reduction of legislative barriers to european economic development. the legislative proposal goes in this direction by declaring certain types of state aid compatible with the single market and no longer needing to be analysed by the commission. among the areas concerned, support for smes is vital as they are the economic lungs of europe. research, innovation, employment and training are also key areas for a sustainable europe and will now be supported in a simpler and more direct way by the member states.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is simply a codification of existing legislation without any change in its substance.
in writing. the proposal, which i approved, is to determine the procedural rules applicable to state aid investigations. in order to verify that no distortion of competition is caused by the granting of state aid, the commission must give its approval to the granting of such aid.
in writing. i support the proposal for legislation on the rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is necessary for the commission to properly examine the allocation of the different state aids in order to ensure that no distortion is created within the single market. the proposal will enable the commission to oblige any member state, association of undertakings or undertaking to provide the information necessary for the investigations. this is essential for the optimal functioning of the european cornerstone of the single market.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is simply a codification of existing legislation without any change in its substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this text is part of mr duda's package, who has done a good job in these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to carry out a structured and formalised cost-benefit analysis, which allows it to plan and prioritise its checks on specific areas or establishment processes in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument of the european union for providing development cooperation assistance to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the overseas countries and territories (octs). the edf is not financed from the budget of the european union. it is financed by the member states, subject to its own financial regulation and managed by a specific committee. the european commission is responsible for the financial implementation of operations carried out with edf resources, while the investment facility is managed by the european investment bank (eib). the report voted yesterday gives the commission a discharge on the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs for the financial year 2013 and welcomes the opinion of the court of auditors that the annual accounts present the edfs' financial situation accurately in all its significant aspects. however, the report is concerned that the court has found that the control and monitoring systems of europeaid's central services and the union delegations only partially guarantee the legality and regularity of the underlying payments to the committees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the resolution stresses that in certifying the final accounts, the accounting officer stated that he had reasonable assurance that the accounts gave a true and fair view of the financial position of the european parliament in all relevant respects and that no issues requiring a reservation had been brought to his attention. it also states that the court of auditors concluded that its audit had not revealed any serious deficiencies with regard to the themes selected for parliament and that the monitoring and control systems, as regards administrative expenditure in 2013, had been found to be effective. it notes that at the end of 2013, despite successive follow-up audits, 13 actions out of the 452 actions originally agreed under internal control were still to be completed and notes the progress made on four of those 13 actions, which resulted in the downward revision of the residual risk from high to moderate. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation is convinced that the european union and its institutions have added value. to do this, the eu must pursue policies where it can add real value and be prudent in the use of its financial resources. however, as the european court of auditors also describes in its annual reports, the way eu funds are spent today is not sufficiently efficient and transparent. it is unacceptable that taxpayers' money is not being spent correctly. until the court of auditors gives its approval, n-va meps will not grant discharge for the implementation of the budget of the various institutions, agencies and joint undertakings in so far as they are problematic.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today delivered the mandatory and important discharge for the 2013 budget, which, if approved, closes the accounts. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) and a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah). the main recommendations include:- the recall of close cooperation between parliament's administration and the committee on budgetary control;- the need to pay particular attention to improving the access of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to all concessions markets in the union;- the in-depth review of the external communication, in view of the significant expenditure of eur 17 800 000 spent on the electoral campaign in the 2013-2014 period, while the participation rate in the european elections fell again to 42,54%; - the need to improve citizens' confidence in parliament, for example by ensuring transparency and accountability in relation to the reimbursement of overheads.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group has tabled a number of amendments which have been the subject of several internal debates in the weeks following the plenary session. the european socialists have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the resolution welcomes the fact that, for its third financial year, the european external action service (eeas) has once again implemented its budget without the court of auditors finding any major errors. it noted the progress made in correcting the errors identified in previous years and supported the recommendations for improvement made by the court of auditors in its annual report. the resolution also welcomes the court of auditors' special report no 11/2014 on the establishment of the eeas and the many suggestions for improvement it usefully makes and hopes that they will be implemented swiftly. it highlights in particular the efforts made to improve the gender balance and to remove potential barriers to career progression. i approved the dump.
in writing. the discharge to the annual general budget of the european union, which is the procedure for closing the budgetary year, is an important tool for examining how public funds are spent and eu projects are carried out. parliament has the exclusive right to approve the implementation of the budget of the institutions of the union. in addition, all the european institutions need to receive the consent of the european parliament for budgetary matters. parliament thus exercises direct control over the budgets of all the institutions. this is a key role and a very important one. the discharge procedure is very serious and does not stop at the time of the vote in plenary, each year is important and must be carefully examined by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors found that the european external action service (eeas) had implemented its budget without major errors. it should be noted that the eeas was asked to take advantage of economies of scale by creating new synergies at the eeas headquarters and within its delegations, as well as in cooperation with member states and national diplomatic services, in the spirit of a genuine union diplomatic corps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in its 2013 annual report on the court of justice in the areas related to human resources and public procurement. a decrease in the budget execution rate and a significant increase in the number of procedures handled compared to 2012 is noted. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013. the vote was due to the fact that payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, on the whole, free from material error. no significant deficiencies were observed in the audit of the areas related to human resources and public procurement for the court of justice. the court of justice closed 701 cases in 2013 (compared to 595 in 2012) and received 699 new cases (compared to 632 in 2012). for your information, the report for which i voted 'yes' contains a series of observations on the day-to-day management of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor in accordance with the principles of transparency and accountability which it applies when auditing the accounts of the other european bodies. the examination was concluded positively. the court of auditors underlines that in its new strategy covering the period 2013-2017, it intends to maximise its role as the union's external auditor by increasing the quantity and quality of audit reports on sound financial management through greater efficiency and better use of the resources allocated to these reports. i voted for the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2013. indeed, according to the independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the court's financial situation. in 2013, the overall budget implementation rate was 92% (compared to 96% in 2012). it should also be noted that the latest amendments to the european parliament's rules of procedure, which aim to increase the participation of parliamentary committees in the various sectors in the special reports, have not lived up to their promises. finally, for those who wish to read the comments made by members on the day-to-day management of the court of auditors, i would advise you to consult the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has given a positive audit opinion on the management of the eesc's payments. the european parliament has recommended a policy of equal opportunities to remedy the current gender imbalance (61%-39%) in management positions as soon as possible. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee (eesc) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors found that the overall payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, as a whole, free from material error. in addition, the court of auditors mentions the absence of any significant deficiency when auditing the human resources and procurement areas for the eesc. i would like to point out, however, that this report, for which i voted 'yes', deplores the judgment of the civil service tribunal of the european union of 22 may 2014, which condemned the eesc for having infringed the charter of fundamental rights of the european union by dismissing one of its staff in 2013. i therefore ask the eesc and its new secretary-general to take appropriate measures to prevent the recurrence of serious breaches of the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' annual report does not identify any significant shortcomings in the management of human resources and public procurement at the level of the committee of the regions. the rapporteur welcomes the 2013 annual report on subsidiarity, which provides an overview of the committee's subsidiarity monitoring activities during the year and considers it a valuable tool for parliament's legislative work. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses were found when auditing the human resources and public procurement areas for the committee of the regions. payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, on the whole, free from material error. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the committee of the regions, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors notes that no significant deficiencies have been identified in the management of human resources and public procurement in the european ombudsman's service. the report highlights the considerable effort made to close 70% of the inquiries in less than a year. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors observes that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the european ombudsman. i would also like to add that while i am pleased that a woman has been chosen to fill the post of european ombudsman, it is also important for the ombudsman to put in place a plan for equal opportunities, particularly in relation to management positions. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the ombudsman, i can only recommend that you consult the report referred to here.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur welcomes the court of auditors' conclusions that all payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for the operational and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor were free from material error and that the control and monitoring systems examined for the policy group 'administrative and other expenditure' were effective. the court also emphasises that the examination of expenditure on human resources and public procurement has not shown any significant error. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the european data protection supervisor (edps) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors' findings indicate that all payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for the edps's operational and other expenditure were free from material error and that the control and surveillance systems were effective. furthermore, no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of the hr and procurement areas for the controller. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the edps, i can only recommend that you consult the report referred to here.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the horizontal report on the monitoring of the 32 agencies is constructive in emphasising the important role of these agencies in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the area of freedom, security and justice, and welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the roadmap establishing a 'common approach' to the monitoring of the agencies adopted in 2012. among the various points raised, the report stresses the need to strengthen internal controls of the agencies but calls for an improvement in their visibility. the report recalls that the principle of annuality is one of the three fundamental accounting principles, together with the principles of unity and balance, which are essential to ensure the efficient implementation of the union budget and notes that decentralised agencies sometimes do not fully comply with this principle. it calls on the agencies to limit errors in this respect. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ this report adopted yesterday addresses the cross-cutting issues related to the financial management and control of the agencies in order to avoid recalling them in the 32 discharge reports of the agencies. among the highlights is the fact that for the 2013 financial year, the agencies' budget amounted to some eur 2 billion, representing 1.4% of the general budget of the union. the agencies employ some 6 500 officials and temporary staff, in addition to 2 900 contract or seconded staff. 10 agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their headquarters is a cause for concern. in addition, cooperation between agencies is steadily increasing in their respective specialist fields and 65% of agencies expect to sign new mous with other agencies in the near future. finally, 61% of the agencies have already published the cvs and declarations of interests of their board members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors underlines that corrective measures have been taken following its 2012 report. it acknowledges in particular that the agency has implemented a series of measures to improve budget planning procedures by developing and implementing a set of guidelines to be followed by budget planning actors, and by regularly carrying out forecasting and review exercises on the consumption of appropriations, including monthly monitoring and reporting on budget implementation. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). the european parliament acknowledges that the agency has revised its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's guidelines for decentralised union agencies. another good point is the establishment of an action plan to strengthen the monitoring of procurement activities. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions are concerned: the european parliament, the commission, the council and the european council, but also the european court of justice and the european court of auditors, as well as nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of acer, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors underlines that the agency has taken various measures to address the difficulties highlighted in the 2012 report. it acknowledges that, according to the office, the office has taken measures to mitigate the problems related to the implementation of the budget and monitoring, by organising monthly budget meetings between the office's directors and by carrying out detailed analyses of the progress made in the implementation of the budget, which will be submitted to the steering committee for comments every quarter. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). the european parliament acknowledges from the court's report that the office's budget implementation rates have improved significantly compared to 2012, reflecting better planning and more regular implementation of activities. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions are concerned: the european parliament, the commission, the council and the european council, but also the european court of justice and the european court of auditors, the european external action service and nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the discharge to the office's management committee on the implementation of the budget of the office for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. for information, i would note that the final budget of the office for the financial year 2013 was up by 11,51% compared to 2012. this increase is due to the recent creation of the authority. it should also be noted that the execution rates of payment appropriations improved considerably (76.58% in 2013). however, there are also delays in reimbursement to experts. for those who would like to read the series of comments made by members on the day-to-day running of the european observatory for nuclear safety, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur notes, according to information from the centre, that the centre has developed an action plan to reduce its administrative costs in the areas of human resources, financial circuits, information technology and infrastructure and notes, according to information from the centre, that the centre has reached its limit in terms of reducing administrative costs. i voted for the discharge.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt). the centre's large budget (eur 52 193 667 for the financial year 2013) is justified by the importance of its mission: to provide from luxembourg, to any institution and body of the european union that requests it, the translation services necessary for their activities. the centre was also praised for its transparency, with the publication of cvs and declarations of interests of its board members on its website. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, a step which is required for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations: the four political institutions but also almost 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. the reason for this decision is that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was an increase of 8.08% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the cor, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal controls and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur notes in particular that budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,95% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 92,39. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). despite a budget reduction of 6,72% compared to 2012, cedefop, with a budget for the financial year 2013 of eur 17 925 075, has fulfilled a good part of its objectives, in particular the coordination of its activities with the european training foundation and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in order to maximise synergies. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. as the european parliament's auditors, it is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions - parliament, commission, council and european council - are involved, as are nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013. the vote takes account in particular of the fact that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that cedefop's final budget for the financial year 2013 is down by 6,72% compared to 2012. i also commend the centre for developing procedures to monitor and report on legality and regularity and for setting up its own anti-fraud strategy. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of cedefop, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur notes that budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,89% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 92,46%. it acknowledges the efforts made by the college to increase the level of payment execution significantly by 21% from 76% in the financial year 2012. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, this means that the european parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, has to verify that the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament has for example given discharge to the european police college (cepol), which has a budget of €8 450 640 to ensure cooperation between senior police officials from all over europe. the choice of the new headquarters is still up for debate: cepol moved into its new headquarters in budapest in october 2014, which is also the seat of the government of victor orban, which tramples on many of the fundamental european values. the college will in any event have to respond to the european parliament's call for a new european policy on training law enforcement officers to deal with increasingly complex and cross-border major crime phenomena, which follows the european commission's proposal for a regulation of 16 july 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european college discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that cepol's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying operations were legal and regular. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of cepol, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audit and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur stresses that the court's 2011 and 2012 reports have been followed up. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the european aviation safety agency (easa). with one of the largest budgets of any agency (eur 167 023 535, with a union contribution to its 2013 budget of eur 40 518 135), easa is intended to promote the harmonisation of technical rules in all areas of civil aviation. the european parliament nevertheless noted the lack of transparency in the process of outsourcing part of the agency's certification activities to national aviation authorities and qualified entities. it spent some eur 22 million to carry out this partial outsourcing. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i give the reasons for my vote as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was up by 5,15% compared to 2012. the union contribution was eur 40.518.135 out of the final budget of eur 167.023.535. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of easa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it includes a series of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audits and controls and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur notes, however, that budgetary planning could be improved considerably, particularly as regards the volume of commitment appropriations carried over. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ as human tragedies in the mediterranean increase and the absence of harmonised migration and asylum policies is a major concern at eu level, the european asylum support office (easo) has just received the european parliament's backing for the sound management of its 2013 budget. a ridiculously modest annual budget of eur 10 500 000, which is only eur 1 500 000 more than the daily expenditure of the italian government on the 'mare nostrum' sea rescue operation. in another comparison, easo's budget is € 1 500 000 more than that agreed by the heads of state and government at the summit on 23 april to carry out rescue and control operations at sea via operations triton and poseidon, and possibly to save the lives of migrants who take to the sea. a budget endorsed by the discharge authority but above all an unworthy budget in view of the humanitarian emergency at the doorstep of europe. no european state can escape the obligation of solidarity in such a situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the office discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the office's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 10,5 million, fully covered by the union budget. furthermore, i invite the office to make public both its policy on the management of conflicts of interest and the ethics forms signed by the members of the administrative board and the executive director. finally, for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of easo, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, public procurement, recruitment and internal controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our political group tabled a number of amendments, including several in my name, which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
by written. ‒ the proposal, which i have approved, is to determine the procedural rules applicable to state aid enquiries. in order to verify that no distortion of competition occurs when state aid is granted, the commission must give its agreement to the allocation of such aid.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur stresses that the recommendations of the court's 2012 report have been widely implemented. the report also acknowledges, for the benefit of the authority, that the authority's policy on conflicts of interest concerning staff and other contracting parties, as well as non-staff, has been adopted and implemented. it notes for the benefit of the authority the publication on the authority's website of the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board and the board of supervisors, as well as the declarations of interest of the chairperson, the executive director and senior management. it also notes that the declarations of interest are publicly accessible on the authority's website. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament has for example given discharge to a fairly new body, the european banking authority (eba). the authority was established in november 2010 alongside two other bodies, the european systemic risk board and the european securities and markets authority. these three bodies are involved in the package of measures put in place to reform the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and can contribute to greater integration and stability in the banking sector in europe. the discharge given to the eba is therefore welcome news, as it has important tasks to perform, not the least of which is to monitor and analyse the market and credit trends and to promote the protection of depositors and investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the authority in respect of the implementation of the eba's budget for the financial year 2013. the reason for this vote was in particular that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 967 360, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012 due to the recent establishment of the authority. of this amount, eur 10 386 944 came from a contribution from the budget of the european union. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the eba, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report expresses concern that, in the light of the court's report, in respect of a procedure launched in 2013, there were contradictions between the information contained in the contract notice and that contained in the specifications, which may have affected the tendering process and the outcome of the procedure. however, the court acknowledges that the centre took immediate corrective action following its audit. i voted for the discharge.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the overall contribution of the union to the budget of the ecdc for the financial year 2013 was eur 56 727 000, the same as in 2012, but its tasks are nonetheless important. the spread of the ebola epidemic and the high number of deaths due to influenza each year in europe, especially among those aged over 65, are two examples among many of the need to build a harmonised public health policy in europe, particularly in relation to infectious diseases. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, the european parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. as the european parliament's auditors, it is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was eur 58.315 million, an increase of 0.2% compared to 2012. of this amount, the union contribution was eur 56,727 million. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the ecdc, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment, controls and internal audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the rapporteur notes with concern that, for operational expenditure, committed appropriations carried over to 2014 remained at a high level of 46%. however, it acknowledges, in the light of the court's report, that these postponements were mainly due to the multiannual nature of the planned it development projects, the costs of translations ordered but not received at the end of the year and the evaluations of substances for which the regulatory deadlines were set at february 2014. it also called on the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs under operational expenditure. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is in fact checking whether the union's accounts have been managed in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament has for example given discharge to the european chemicals agency (echa). with a budget of €107 270 800, echa, based in helsinki, is one of the three major achievements of the reach regulation, which is a major turning point in the regulation of industrial chemicals. reach is also a new procedure: registration and authorisation, a new risk management tool. the agency's task is still enormous, since between 2007 and 2018, almost 30 000 substances (out of 100 000 existing on the community market), representing the vast majority of the tonnages produced and placed on the market, will have to be notified to the agency and registered by industrialists. reach is based on the principle: no data, no market .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of echa's budget for the financial year 2013. the reason for this choice is in particular that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency has benefited from eu grants of eur 7,632 million paid by the commission and pre-financing from the instrument for pre-accession assistance of eur 103,524, as well as other contributions and financing from the commission of eur 920,900. it should also be noted that an sme ambassador has been appointed to represent the interests of small businesses inside and outside the agency. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of echa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. it contains a number of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment and internal audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report notes, in the light of the court's report, that the agency has awarded grants under five major programmes to consortia of european environmental institutions and bodies, un organisations and national environmental organisations. it underlines that the total amount of grant-related expenditure in 2013 was eur 13 900 000, representing 31% of total operational expenditure, and acknowledges that following the comments made by the court in the previous year, the agency has intensified its checks on the eligibility and accuracy of the staff costs declared under the grant programmes, as these represent the majority of the costs. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ copenhagen, which is best known for europe's largest offshore wind farm, its courageous cartoonists fighting for freedom of expression and its little mermaid, which is to the danish capital what manneken-pis is to brussels, is also home to a lesser-known but equally important organisation: the european environment agency. it is one of the most effective european agencies, making good use of its budget of eur 49 270 722 because, in addition to its annual report on the environment in europe, which gives the state of play of european biodiversity, it often acts in advance to alert european decision-makers and public opinion to the upheavals taking place in environmental health. clearly, such worrying issues as industrial mercury poisoning, fertility problems caused by pesticides and the alteration of ecosystems caused by pharmaceuticals, which are raised in the eea reports, deserve a response from the european institutions and at least the active support of the european parliament, as was the case this afternoon with the positive vote on the discharge granted to the copenhagen agency's 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i voted yes, in particular because the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 49.270.722, representing an increase of 18,16% compared to 2012. this increase would be mainly related to operational expenditure for strategic actions. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the eea, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report acknowledges, for the benefit of the agency, that it is constantly seeking new opportunities for synergies with other agencies, for example through the agreement on the sharing of internal audit capacities, the coordination of training courses and the implementation of ex post controls in collaboration with other agencies located in spain and portugal. it also noted that the agency is currently providing support to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and noted the collaboration between the agency and the emsa on the joint project on the anti-piracy surveillance service. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions are concerned: the european parliament, the commission, the council and the european council, but also the european court of justice and the european court of auditors and nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. they acknowledge the efforts made by the agency to seek synergies with other agencies, for example through the service level agreement on the performance of controls in collaboration with other agencies located in southern europe, such as the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the iefca budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 216 900, all of which came from the union budget. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the efca, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment, conflict prevention and management and internal control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report stresses, however, that the agency still needs to significantly improve internal arrangements to eliminate any potential conflict of interest with regard to experts associated with its work. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013. the agency, which was set up in 2002 in the wake of the mad cow crisis, plays a very important role in food security. however, recent years have been marked by conflicts of interest in some of the scientific committees advising efsa. i therefore, like the majority of my colleagues on the committee on the environment, encourage the authority to continue to strengthen its policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest, in order to preserve independence and transparency in all areas of its work. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, a step which is required for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations: the four political institutions but also almost 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. the reason for this vote was in particular that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 78,051 million, representing a decrease of 0,31% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of the efsa agency, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment and internal control and audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report calls for better interaction between the legislative and non-legislative priorities of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the institute's research. it recognised the importance of the role of the institute in collecting reliable, comparable and gender-disaggregated data, which are essential for the development of national and european policies, in particular on gender-based violence, and called on the institute to work closely with eurostat and the european union agency for fundamental rights to provide regular surveys on the most important issues for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, in particular on violence against women and the characteristics of women's employment. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the european institute for gender equality. the body was set up in 2006 to promote gender equality by mainstreaming it into all eu policies. the european parliament underlined the importance of the role played by the institute in collecting reliable, comparable and gender-disaggregated data, which are essential for the development of national and european policies on the most important issues, in particular on violence against women and the characteristics of women's employment. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual of the european discharge. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. as the european parliament's auditors, it is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations: the four political institutions but also almost 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the director of the institute in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eige for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2013 was eur 10.024.535, an increase of 29.49% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the eige, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to give a discharge to the european institute for gender equality. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report underlines that the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential for a better integrated, more efficient and secure union insurance and pension sector, thus contributing to economic recovery and the creation of jobs and growth in europe, and to preventing future crises in the financial sector. the rapporteur also acknowledges that the european system of financial supervision is still in its implementation phase and stresses that both the tasks already entrusted to the authority and its future powers, envisaged in the context of the ongoing legislative work, require sufficient human and budgetary resources to enable high quality supervision. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ is it necessary to recall the leading role played by the european parliament in the establishment of a comprehensive european system of financial supervision (esfs) in response to the financial crisis and in the creation, as an integral part of the esfs, of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) in 2011? the logical consequence today is the favourable vote of the meps, who gave the discharge to this authority for the financial year 2013. as a european supervisory authority, eiopa has achieved good results in a short period of time, as noted by the commission in its recent report on the functioning of the european supervisory authorities. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has stated that the eaapp should make full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. it is true that consumers will one day retire - a good example of a prudent approach in the insurance industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of eaapp for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 18 767 470, an increase of 19,88% compared to 2012. this increase is due to the recent creation of the authority. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the eagf, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on procurement procedures, recruitment and internal control and audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states in this file that it obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts were reliable, but that it was unable to gather sufficient and appropriate evidence as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions! the main focus is on the institute's grant operations for the second year in a row. the court regrets in particular that the ex post verifications have cast doubt on the effectiveness of the ex ante controls on the grants granted. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) and two european/private technology partnerships. the european institute of innovation and technology, located in budapest, failed the first 'discharge' test because parliament was not satisfied with the procedures for verifying payments before and after the contracted projects. the eit has until december to prove that it has improved its management of european resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution recalls the essential role played by the agency in protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and monitoring of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. it acknowledges for the agency that the transparency criteria for partner organisations, patient organisations, healthcare sector organisations and consumer organisations were revised in 2014 to increase the transparency of funding. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. the agency was set up in 2004 following the regulation establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the existing aid scheme to cover the costs of the operation of the scheme, in particular the costs of the 'chamber of instruction' and the 'chamber of instruction' (see recital 26). it is also important to note, as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety did in its opinion, the essential role played by the agency in protecting and promoting public and animal health. the improvements in the conflict of interest management policy, adopted by the management board in march 2012, and the call for the agency to further strengthen its conflict of interest management policy in order to ensure the independence and transparency of its activities are also noteworthy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i give the reasons for this choice in particular to the fact that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 251,56 million, an increase of 13,07% compared to 2012, of which the european union's share was eur 40,937,951. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the ema, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audits and controls and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution stresses that it has implemented multiple processes and measures to ensure appropriate ex ante and ex post checks and cost controls on subsidies granted under reitox cooperation. the commission notes that the measures include detailed ex ante controls, written instructions to the national focal points of the reitox network, specific information sessions on the issues, an annual analysis of the financial reports of each national focal point and ex post on-the-spot audits. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, a step which is required for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations: the four political institutions but also almost 50 executive agencies and european institutes. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against drugs and drug addiction strengthened. the agency, which has a budget of over 16 million euros, recently alerted public authorities to the health danger posed by the proliferation of synthetic drugs in the european union. the emcdda also reports that seizures in europe increased sevenfold between 2008 and 2013, with 47 000 seizures, and that 450 new drugs are now being detected in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the emcdda for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the observatory for the financial year 2013 was eur 16 308 171,83, representing a decrease of 0,05% compared to 2012. the overall union contribution to this total amounted to eur 15,55 million, representing a decrease of 0,01% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the emcdda, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution recalls the essential role played by the agency in protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and monitoring of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. it acknowledges for the agency that the transparency criteria for partner organisations, patient organisations, healthcare sector organisations and consumer organisations were revised in 2014 to increase the transparency of funding. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that this afternoon meps approved the 2013 accounts of the european maritime safety agency (emsa), a body set up in 2002 which plays a key role as the guarantor of maritime safety in europe, as underlined by my excellent colleague dominique riquet in his opinion on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, in which he again welcomed the fact that the remit of the emsa has been extended following the adoption of its new basic regulation in february 2013. more generally, meps have undergone the annual ritual known as the european discharge. in practice, the european parliament's plenary, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, has to verify that the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sort of audit role, the european parliament is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, a step which is required for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations: the four political institutions, but also almost 50 executive agencies and european institutes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of esma for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 57.819.864, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012. the union contribution to this amount was eur 53,789,658. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the emsa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, conflict prevention and management and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution first recalls that the agency's main mission is to strengthen the union's capacity to prevent and, where appropriate, address network and information security problems by building on initiatives taken at national and union level. it then points out that information on the impact of its activities on eu citizens is provided on the agency's website through the annual publication of policy documents, including the annual report, as well as through new communication channels such as social networks. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that enisa's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 670 185, an increase of 18,53% compared to 2012. of this total, the union contribution was eur 9 030 000. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of enisa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audits and controls and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular the resolution, however, points to serious shortcomings in recruitment policy, staff management and conflict of interest. the commission's audit service has, however, made a number of recommendations in this respect and will need to remain extremely vigilant in the follow-up. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the efa for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 858 799, representing an increase of 0,23% compared to 2012, an amount fully borne by the union budget. it should also be noted that the agency has not always adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective strategy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest despite the special recommendations made for several years by the discharge authority and the commission. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the efa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audit and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution underlines that the authority's role in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential for a better integration, greater efficiency and security of the union's financial markets, thus contributing to economic recovery and the creation of jobs and growth in europe, and to the prevention of future financial crises. it noted that the european system of financial supervision (esfs) was still in its establishment phase and stressed that both the tasks already entrusted to the authority and its future responsibilities, envisaged in the context of the ongoing legislative work, required sufficient human and budgetary resources to enable high-quality supervision. it recalled that the need to combine an extension of missions with a strengthening of resources should always be carefully examined. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of esma for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 28 188 749, an increase of 39% compared to 2012, and that this increase was due to the new tasks entrusted to the authority. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of the emff, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on credit transfers, procurement and recruitment procedures, as well as on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the resolution notes that budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,78% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 95,72%. the resolution also recognises the foundation's continued contribution to improving human capital development in partner countries. it further welcomes the results achieved in 2013 in the context of the foundation's medium-term perspective 2010-2013 which reflect the good implementation of the four-year plan. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions are concerned: the european parliament, the commission, the council and the european council, but also the european court of justice and the european court of auditors, the european external action service and nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes. in particular, they gave a discharge to the director of the european training foundation, which is based in turin, and also followed the proposal of the employment committee, which has the responsibility for this body and which, in its opinion, recognised the foundation's continuing contribution to improving the development of human capital in the partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the etf's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 143 500, all of which came from the union budget. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the etf, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, public procurement, recruitment and internal auditing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular the resolution draws attention to the fact that in the absence of reliable and complete data on the costs of the total development of the schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and eurodac, these costs were recorded in the accounts of eu-lisa at their net book value according to the commission's books, following the transfer of the operational management of these systems from the commission to eu-lisa in may 2013. this value was updated at the end of the year but mainly concerns ready-to-use hardware and software components and does not include software development costs. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the committee on budgetary control members pointed out that the seat of the agency is in tallinn, while its operational activities are carried out in strasbourg. as emphasised in the opinion of the court, it would be preferable for all staff to be based on a single site, in order to increase the efficiency of management and reduce administrative expenditure of eu-lisa. but it certainly seems that, as with the question of the single seat of the european parliament, despite the support of an overwhelming majority of meps, the double seat is a common practice in the european microcosm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of eu-lisa discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of eu-lisa for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 61.345.072, all of which came from the union budget. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of eu-lisa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on procurement procedures, recruitment, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal controls and audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution underlines that significant improvements have been made in particular in the implementation of the annual work programme, the inventory of the establishment of the budget by activity in 2013 and recruitment and salary issues. notes that 2013 was the last year of the european union strategy for occupational health and safety 2009-2013 and welcomes the results achieved by the agency during this period, including the promotion of online interactive tools for small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of occupational safety and health management; finally, it underlines the adoption of the new multiannual strategic programme of the agency for the years 2014-2020. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ meps undertook the annual ritual of the european discharge this afternoon. in practice, the european parliament's plenary session, which generally follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, is responsible for checking whether the union's appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions are concerned: the european parliament, the commission, the council and the european council, but also the european court of justice and the european court of auditors, the european external action service and nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that eu-osha's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 17.682.338, an increase of 4,5% compared to 2012. of that amount, the union contribution for the financial year 2013 was eur 15 614 775. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of eu-osha, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, public procurement, recruitment and controls and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ it is only logical that the european parliament, meeting in plenary this afternoon, has confirmed the proposal for the discharge of the committee on budgetary control in respect of one of the oldest european bodies: the euratom supply agency (ea), which was set up by the euratom treaty and became operational on 1 june 1960. 55 years later, this "old" organization deserves a triple a.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director-general of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the eea for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 104 000, the same amount as in 2012, all of which comes from the union budget. as regards the reliability of the accounts, my colleagues and i note that the information accompanying the agency's annual accounts explains that all salaries and certain additional costs related to administrative services were financed directly from the commission's budget. however, while wage costs are reported, no information is provided on the cost of administrative services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the resolution notes that 2013 was the first year of the foundation's four-year programme (2013-2016) and in this regard appreciates the activities of the foundation, which provides timely and high-quality knowledge for policy-making, which has been used by, inter alia, the international labour organisation. the commission also notes the improvement of most of the key performance indicators compared to 2012. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that eurofound's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 624 300, representing a decrease of 3,76% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of eurofound, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, public procurement, recruitment and internal auditing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that eurojust's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution nevertheless considers, in general terms, that more attention should be paid to the principle of sound financial management of eurojust in accordance with the budgetary principle of annuality, namely the economy, efficiency and performance with which it has used the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks assigned to it. an internal audit action plan will be followed up by the commission's internal audit service during the next in-depth risk analysis. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 33 828 256 of which the contribution from the union budget amounted to eur 32 358 660, up 1,85% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of eurojust, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audit and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution notes with concern, however, in the light of the court's report, that in 2013 the effectiveness of public procurement procedures was undermined by certain decisions that were not based on sufficiently precise selection criteria or realistic price offers and that were not in line with the professional requirements in force, even though the office has made progress over the years in the design, implementation and documentation of public procurement procedures. it notes that, according to the office, following the court's findings, the court started in 2014 an organisational review of all procurement procedures, with a view to improving the current internal organisation structure and underlying processes. the resolution calls on the office to inform the discharge authority of the outcome of this review and of the improvements it intends to make to the procurement procedures. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the office discharge in respect of the implementation of europol's budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that europol's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 82.520.500, down by 1,94% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of europol, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on procurement procedures, recruitment, internal audit and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the resolution notes that budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100%, and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 70,27%, a decrease of 11% compared to 2012. the commission notes, in the light of the court's report, that the high overall level of commitment of appropriations indicates that the commitments were made in a timely manner. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the fra's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 21 348 510, representing an increase of 4,77% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the fra, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on procurement procedures, recruitment, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) is doing a good job and i have therefore voted in favour of the report on discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013, despite the fact that the court of auditors delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the accounts for frontex (this is the second year in a row). in addition, i invite the agency to provide the discharge authority with a report on the ex post verifications carried out using the enhanced verification system, as well as a detailed analysis of the improvements made to the system. it should be noted that the final budget of frontex for the financial year 2013 was eur 93,95 million, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012. of this amount, the union contribution was eur 85,5 million. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of frontex, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, it contains a series of observations on transfers and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the resolution stresses the institution's visibility policy but deplores the absence of a policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest and urges the agency to adopt one as soon as possible and to inform the discharge authority. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that gsa's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 80.449.967, which represents a decrease of 23,76% compared to 2012. the union contribution to the budget of the agency for 2013 amounted to eur 13 973 518, representing an increase of 9,69% compared to 2012. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day running of the gsa, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of observations on credit transfers, procurement procedures, recruitment and internal audit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i note that the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audits submitted to it and that, at the end of march 2014, 7 of the 23 nfas had not provided the information on audit strategies. the joint undertaking was therefore not in a position to assess whether the audits provided sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in addition, i am also concerned about the limited information available on the evaluation of the contributions of member states and research and development organisations corresponding to the actual level of union payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors notes that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date. in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking, the court stated that the transactions underlying the annual accounts are legal and regular in all material respects the court also notes that the joint undertaking continued to improve its management procedures, as well as its administrative, financial and accounting procedures in 2013, and notes in this regard the development of the grant management tool. the resolution also calls on the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already completed and requests that this report be accompanied by an evaluation carried out by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. with my colleagues, we invite the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the contributions of all members other than the commission and on the application of the evaluation rules, accompanied by an evaluation by the commission. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of the clean sky joint undertaking, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, it will contain a series of observations on conflicts of interest so that all the problems recorded will be resolved by the end of september 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 clean sky budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. indeed, i am very concerned that the court has, for the third year in a row, delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts, on the grounds that it was not able to determine whether eniac's ex post audit strategy provided sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. this opinion, with reservations, calls into question the joint undertaking's will to be effective and efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013, together with the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date. notes that the internal audit structure of the joint undertaking, in accordance with the commission's internal audit service strategic plan and the internal audit structure of the joint undertaking for the period 2011-2013, performed an audit of the negotiation and management of grants, contracts and pre-financing in 2013 and provided various assurance and advisory services; the resolution also calls on the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already completed and requests that this report be accompanied by an evaluation carried out by the commission. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking (pch2) discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i am voting in particular on the grounds that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the pch2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be noted that the final budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 included commitment appropriations of eur 74,5 million and payment appropriations of eur 69,7 million. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the pch2 joint undertaking, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, you will find a series of comments on the legal framework of the joint undertaking and on the ongoing calls for proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of imi 2 for the financial year 2013. i note in particular that the audits revealed an error rate of 5.82% which implied a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the joint undertaking's accounts by the court of auditors knowing that this error rate is above the 2% threshold. an action plan should be drawn up with clear objectives to address the shortcomings and errors identified by the court. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by members on the day-to-day management of the imi 2 joint undertaking, i can only recommend that you consult the report in question. in particular, it contains a series of observations on conflicts of interest within the joint undertaking, the management of certain calls for proposals and the legal framework of imi2.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on the discharge to the executive director of the iter and fusion energy development company for the financial year 2013. i regret that there is a significant risk of an increase in the amount of the joint undertaking's contribution to the construction phase of the iter project. furthermore, the joint undertaking did not specify in its financial statements the degree of progress of the work in progress. this information is essential for the proper measurement of iter's performance and internal management. for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy, i can only recommend that you look at the report in question.
in writing. i regret that the ep has today approved the accounts of the money-consuming iter fusion project. we are therefore going against the conclusions of the european court of auditors and the earlier decision of the committee on budgetary control. this is incomprehensible when you know the pressure on national and european budgets. it seems that the nuclear industry has different laws. it is scandalous that a majority should give in to the pressure of industry despite the serious objections. the ever-increasing cost of iter - from €5.9 billion in 2006 to at least €16 billion now - is a hold-up on european taxpayers and future generations. as early as late 2013, a us congressionally mandated study concluded that iter was the result of poor leadership and mismanagement. the court also expressed its concern about the continuing cost overruns, delays and mismanagement within iter and the negative impact on other budget lines. when it comes to the nuclear sector, apparently anything goes. eu spending on nuclear research and development is 4.5 times the budget for renewable energy and energy saving. iter is the symbol for nuclear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the resolution first recalls the essential role of the joint undertaking in the coordination and implementation of research under the sesar project, a pillar of the single european sky. it also notes that 2014 marks the beginning of the deployment phase of the sesar project. it notes that the court of auditors found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013, together with the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013. the court emphasises that the joint undertaking has taken measures to prevent conflicts of interest and that ex ante controls have been improved. the resolution also calls on the joint undertaking to report to the discharge authority on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already completed. i approved the dump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the 2013 budget. our group tabled a number of amendments which were the subject of several internal debates in the weeks before the plenary session. the socialists in europe have spoken out in favour. the proposal was voted on by a majority on wednesday.
in writing. ‒ the eu's objective is to create a european capital markets union. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to create money market funds, particularly to fill in gaps in investment and financing. as short-term financial instruments, money market funds can help the economy grow and provide a high level of liquidity in the short term. however, a strict regulatory framework is necessary to counter the risks of the funds.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in this vote because we did not have enough guarantees for a sound reform of the monetary funds at european level. monetary funds are a key component of the shadow banking system. there are two main families of money funds. the variable value mmfs and the constant value mmfs. the constant value monetary funds were at the heart of the concerns in this dossier. these constant value monetary funds operate outside the traditional banking regulation even though they act like banks. the promise of a constant value repayment is an accounting mirage. the price of the assets in which the fund invests fluctuates as in any financial market. this opacity creates an advantage for the first to escape the bottom, leaving the remaining investors to wipe out the entire losses in the absence of external support. the risk of panic and contagion is real in the event of market instability. it is therefore extremely important to legislate on this subject, providing all the guarantees of transparency and risk reduction.
in writing. – the money market fund regulation is very important as it represents a €1 billion market. such a large market is strategically important, especially in a period where we want to build capital markets as an alternative to bank financing. the regulation will be putting in place a new lvnav product which will be crucial to the financing of the real economy. however i am concerned about the 'sunset clause' whereby the lvnav will end after 5 years. the first argument is that the impact assessment estimated that €250 billion will flow away, and we really cannot afford this. the second argument is that it suggests a negative speculation that the product does not work and that consequently investors will not take up this new lvnav product if there is a cut-off date after 5 years. while i can support a review of the lvnav after 4 years this review should determine whether the lvnav should continue or not rather than the parliament predetermining the outcome with a sunset clause. the lvnav already has in place sufficient safeguards to address systemic risk for example daily and weekly liquidity thresholds, liquidity fees and redemption gates for times of market stress, strict diversification requirements etc. despite these reservations i have voted in favour of the mmf report, fully trusting that the outcome of the trilogue will deliver a more balanced text, especially around the sunset clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft regulation on monetary funds on the grounds that the aim of the proposal is to ensure that all types of monetary funds are transparent, liquid and stable, so as to enable them to play their role as short-term financing. monetary funds are an important part of the shadow banking system, which is viewed with justified concern because it is poorly regulated. i am glad that we have finally been able to adopt the common position after months of intensive discussions in the econ committee. i am particularly pleased with the change in the constant-net-worth monetary funds, a large part of which is now set to disappear within five years. the way is now open for negotiations with the council in the form of a trilogue. i hope that a compromise can be found with the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved yesterday a common position on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european framework for money market funds. the text provides for the creation of three new types of constant value monetary funds ('cnav'): public debt cnavs, cnavs that would invest a majority (99,5%) of their assets in public debt, retail cnavs for charitable organisations, public authorities or foundations, and finally, under the leadership of the adle group, low volatility net asset value monetary funds ('lvnav'). for the latter category of funds, a clause is provided for a mandatory conversion of these lvnav to vnav (variable liquidity value funds) after 5 years (the 'sunset clause'). the commission will assess whether the lvnav funds address the issue of financial stability and systemic risk one year before the expiry of this authorisation. the commission will be required to submit a legislative proposal based on its findings, including the possibility of indefinite authorisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. as an internal market specialist, i would stress that in order to preserve the integrity and stability of the internal market, it is necessary to establish rules on the functioning of monetary funds, and in particular on the composition of their portfolios. the aim is to make monetary funds more resilient and to limit the risks of contagion. uniform rules applicable throughout the union are necessary to enable mmfs to respond to investor redemption requests, in particular in stressed market situations. in addition, uniform rules should be established for the portfolio of such funds to ensure that they can cope with substantial and sudden redemption requests from a large group of investors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gave its green light this afternoon to the revision of the common import regime for certain textile products. the regulation, which was established in 1994, aims to promote the orderly and equitable development of trade in textiles between the european community and the supplying countries. the text is important for the sector, with a turnover of €166 billion in 2013, the european union is the 2nd largest exporter in the world, just behind china. technical shortcomings identified in the commission's work will therefore be corrected. in reality, it is much more than adapting the old procedure to the harmonisation imposed by the lisbon treaty. the overhaul decided yesterday implies real changes in substance. the textile sector employs nearly 1.7 billion people in the european union, so clarifying and simplifying these rules was crucial to ensure legal certainty, but also to allow the clothing and textile sector in europe to survive. #mrk
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of council regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific community import rules. i am motivated by a concern for the clarity and transparency of the law. the proposed new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst fully preserving their substance. at present, the only countries exporting textiles to the union that are not covered by agreements, protocols or other bilateral arrangements are belarus and north korea. the regulation then sets quantitative limits on imports of several textiles originating in those two countries and allows surveillance measures to be imposed on other third countries where imports of textile products originating in those countries cause or threaten to cause serious injury to community production of similar or directly competing products.
in writing. ‒ we can sell clothes, we cannot sell human rights!!! i am sure i shall vote for this text and insist on the traceability of the origin of the garments and on the strict observance of working conditions in accordance with the human rights convention!
in writing. ‒ i welcome this proposal for the 2016 budget, in essence, because it recommends, among other things, to increase the transparency of the funds available to a member of the european parliament for the exercise of his mandate. i have, however, opposed an increase in the social assistance allowance, because it sends the wrong signal in times of shortage of public funds. this is the view shared by the belgian and dutch delegations within the epp group.
in writing. ‒ in this report i supported in particular the amendments which stressed the need for greater transparency in the allowance for meps' overheads and which also called on the bureau of the parliament to define more precise rules on responsibility for expenditure authorised under this allowance, without this entailing additional costs for parliament. i also supported the amendment which considered that an increase in the allowances for secretarial expenses of members was not appropriate in the current context of persistent crisis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i voted against it. the monthly allowance paid to 751 meps to run their offices and pay staff will rise from eur 21 379 to eur 22 879 in 2016 if these recommendations are implemented. this increase in the secretarial remuneration of members is not appropriate in the current context of the ongoing crisis. despite a dramatic socioeconomic crisis that is shaking the eu to its foundations, many of my colleagues unfortunately seem to be living in an ivory tower. liberals, christian democrats and social democrats say that we must work harder through the lisbon treaty. the epp even asked for more money than has been approved today. this is simply not necessary. in times of austerity, asking for extra money is not a good idea. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. - i voted for mr deprez's text. it should be noted that during the last parliamentary term parliament had set a series of political priorities, which resulted in moderate budgetary increases or budgetary savings. the newly elected parliament must examine in depth the implementation of these multiannual projects and, on this basis, set its own political priorities, including, where appropriate, negative priorities. we also ask for an evaluation report on these multiannual projects before parliament's reading in autumn 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i do not agree with the proposed increase in the allowance for meps to recruit staff. in times of crisis, when everyone has to tighten his belt, it is wrong (and, moreover, unnecessary) to increase the allowance for recruiting staff.
in writing. ‒ parts of this report received considerable media coverage. i voted against the increase in the envelope per member for the payment of parliamentary assistants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. i voted for the whole report because it did contain a number of good points, such as the abolition of the strasbourg sessions (which would be a serious saving).
in writing. ‒ the eu loses a large amount of funding each year through financial fraud. however, only a minority of cases result in prosecution. for these reasons, it is now appropriate to establish a european public prosecutor's office (eppo) in accordance with article 86 (1) tfeu. the esta is now to prosecute financial crime at the expense of the eu centrally in cooperation with national law enforcement authorities. the national parliaments have been critical, particularly in relation to the respect of the principle of subsidiarity. i welcome the establishment of a central prosecutor's office and hope that it will live up to its role as an independent authority, with a clear division of responsibilities and the highest level of transparency.
in writing. ‒ an independent european public prosecutor's office should make it possible to combat fraud against the financial interests of the european union more effectively. to maximise its effectiveness, it must of course be coordinated with olaf and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european commission's initiative to create a european public prosecutor's office because every year several hundred million euros from the eu budget are exposed to fraud, corruption and other criminal offences. these crimes undermine citizens' trust in the european institutions and deprive economic and social development of part of its funding. at present, the eu does not have the ability to prosecute criminal offences against its budget. criminal investigations/prosecutions are the exclusive responsibility of the member states and the efforts of national authorities to combat financial crime affecting the eu budget vary from one member state to another. there are also practical obstacles as law enforcement authorities rarely have the resources to carry out cross-border investigations. we therefore need a common response, namely a european public prosecutor's office with the power to conduct investigations (in collaboration with national authorities), to prosecute and to bring cases before the competent courts. in short, an independent european public prosecutor's office that brings real added value.
in writing. the european parliament sends a clear message: we say 'yes' to the european public prosecutor's office but 'no' to a bureaucratic, costly, inefficient structure which is dependent on the member states. the fight against fraud is above all an ethical issue, aimed at strengthening the rule of law and putting an end to situations of impunity. the effectiveness of the fight against fraud now depends on the goodwill and the arbitrariness of the member states. it is the european union's responsibility to defend its financial interests. i denounce the double-talk of some member states which publicly praise the added value of establishing a european public prosecutor's office but which in the backyard empty its substance by ensuring that they will maintain almost total control over its exercise. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide a genuine added value only if it is independent and transparent. the european parliament proposes in a report, to which i have actively contributed, a series of concrete measures to this end. the independence is mainly reflected in the process of appointing future prosecutors, in the distribution of competences (giving priority to the european public prosecutor's office), and in the structure of the european public prosecutor's office (where chambers composed of several prosecutors hold the real power).
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted its position on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office this afternoon. #mrk
in writing. ‒ last week we adopted the report on the draft european public prosecutor's office. in this report we have stressed that this office, which is intended to combat fraud against the european budget, must be fully independent of national governments and european institutions and under democratic control. it is crucial that this office be free from political pressure. we also asked for the rules governing the division of jurisdiction between the public prosecutor's office and the national prosecutor's offices to be clearly defined and considered that national authorities who would conduct investigations falling within the competence of the european public prosecutor's office should be obliged to inform the latter. the selection procedures for the european public prosecutor's office should be open, objective and transparent. finally, i welcome this vote, which should make it possible to combat more effectively offences affecting the financial interests of the union. the commission estimates that this would mean a loss of more than eur 500 million per year. other agencies even estimate the loss to be $1.3 billion a year!
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority an interim report on the commission's proposal to set up a european public prosecutor's office. i fully support the proposal. this interim report sends a strong signal to european governments about the importance of a european public prosecutor's office. the european public prosecutor may not act unilaterally: any decision on, for example, the choice of jurisdiction, the indictment or the closure of a case must first be examined by a court. the report also stresses the importance of clear and consistent rights of defence, so that legal rules cannot be circumvented by cherry-picking and selecting the most favourable legal framework for a particular case. the creation of such a european public prosecutor's office will also strengthen the fight against tax fraud. the european commission estimates that €500 million of eu taxpayers' money earmarked for subsidies is being misused each year. that's disastrous in times of crisis. an effective european public prosecutor's office is needed to tackle this gigantic problem, all the more so as the existing european anti-fraud office (olaf) is only allowed to carry out administrative investigations and therefore has little real power.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation did not support the interim report as a whole. n-va is in favour of effective fraud prevention and efficient use of public funds. more needs to be done to tackle organised crime and fraud. fraudulent spending of public funds should be taken very seriously and investigated immediately with the full cooperation of all member states concerned. however, we do not think that the creation of the eppo as a new eu agency the third of its kind, alongside eurojust and olaf is the right solution. we are particularly concerned that the eppo would be an unnecessary duplication of anti-fraud instruments and thus a waste of taxpayers' money. the eppo is to be established by the european parliament and the council. in addition, it can only be stated that the pif directive, which contains the crimes that would fall within the competence of the eppo, is still stuck in trialogue negotiations. the commission's proposal is wrong in its approach and timing. we therefore see no reason to make a number of recommendations to the council in the margin as a condition for our agreement.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's considerations. the added value of the eppo should be to entrust a single and independent body at european level with the task of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union, to increase the number of prosecutions, to improve the efficiency of recovery operations and to strengthen taxpayers' trust in the european institutions. the current system, while functioning well in some member states, has proven rather ineffective in prosecuting and recovering funds at union level.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i think the candidacy of the outgoing president for a third term has very clearly put the fuse in the gunpowder. the situation in burundi and the surrounding region is indeed a powder keg with many conflict zones. the peace in burundi is very fragile and is now on the verge of collapse. in the past, europe and various countries have made mistakes. too many times we 've closed our eyes and thought: it's only violence in africa. now, colleagues, we have the opportunity to avoid a bloodbath. in fact, we can talk about an impending genocide without taboo. i personally visited rwanda after the genocide in 1994. i've walked past coffins, coffins with thousands of skulls, coffins with thousands of feet. children and women, simply butchered with machetes because they belonged to the wrong ethnic group. now we are hearing that it is also going in that direction in neighbouring burundi. it gives me goosebumps to think that something like this is in the works there, too. we cannot dwell on this in a debate. we need action. you said earlier: i offer my condolences to the family. we often apologize, but killing doesn't do that much good. it is the living who need our action and for that you can count on the support of the alde group.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr hoyer, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank our colleague ernest urtasun on behalf of the s&d group for the work he has done and to welcome the good dynamic that has existed between the various fictitious rapporteurs. the report stresses - you have seen it - the need to develop the european investment bank. while we can look forward to a number of elements in the work and operation of the eib, we also know that with the juncker plan the institution will occupy an even more important place in the european economy in the coming months. i think it is therefore very necessary to discuss its role and how it should be exercised. that is why the text calls - if i may quote a few elements - for priority to be given to sustainable investments and those which are fully involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i think we have a triple win: we save the planet while reducing our energy bill, and that's obviously good for jobs. public institutions must set an example and show the way forward. i therefore hope that the eib will be able to support all the public-private projects that will be submitted in this context. the second priority for our group is obviously the links between the eib and certain intermediaries based in tax havens. we know that the eib does not invest directly in products, that it relies on financial intermediaries. we have no problem with that, but what is not acceptable to our group is, of course, that these intermediaries are based in tax havens. we therefore ask the eib to do everything possible to avoid such situations in the future. finally, we know that the eib has a huge investment capacity, especially since its recapitalisation in 2010 and 2012, but we also know that it is not using all of its lending potential. now is the time for europe's economy to get back on its feet! we therefore hope that the eib will mobilise this wool stock even more to support our european economies even more firmly. it is still tens of billions of euros that could be made available very quickly to the european economy and this seems to us more efficient than a possible miracle leverage effect, even if we all join mr hoyer in hoping that this mechanism will work as well as possible.
the european parliament's report on the annual report of the european investment bank puts the emphasis where it should be, on investment, smes, sustainable energy policy and climate policy. we all know that the financial and economic crisis which has been afflicting our continent for years is still not over. we can only move forward if we find a good balance between sustainable growth, strengthening competitiveness and attracting additional financial investment. the european investment bank is of course strategically important as the largest public investor in the european economy. we therefore believe that it is crucial that the eib's investment policy is in line with this european growth strategy. the ecosystem of which the eib is a part is subject to constant change and renewal. the question is therefore whether the eib and the eif are able to adapt to this changing world, by becoming less bureaucratic, by simplifying and adapting barriers and procedures, and by perhaps taking more risks to achieve additional growth. this requires the eib to be flexible so that it can really respond to the needs of the market and to have the skills and competence to select projects with a turnaround time that is acceptable, also for the market, so that companies do not miss opportunities to invest and remain active here in europe. we believe that the report has some very strong points: the focus on smes, the emphasis on transparency, accountability and the use of financial intermediaries. the emphasis on climate and sustainable energy policy also seems to us to be good points. but the real test case is, of course, the juncker plan, the efsi, where the eib and the eif will play a very important role and where it will also be necessary to mobilise real private investment. it will not be able to come from the public side alone. private investors will also have to join in to encourage basic infrastructure in europe, innovative businesses and research and development. our group supports the eib and the eif in this and we will continue to monitor them closely to make their function less bureaucratic and more economically oriented.
when an economy shows tentative signs of recovery after a long recession, one of the greatest challenges is to build and, above all, to maintain confidence. that's why the emphasis on smart investing is so important. smart means with a well-defined goal, focused and productive. but smart also means that these investments cannot always stand alone. on the contrary, smart investments are embedded in a well-thought-out multi-track policy. the european investment plan is an integral part of this multi-track policy and the european investment bank, with its immense expertise, plays a crucial role in this. the eib has also been active in the development of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment bank (eib) in the field of the environment. a rapid start to this investment offensive is essential to ensure its success. in particular, i look forward to the €5 billion set aside in the investment plan for sme and midcap financing. these companies are the very dna of europe's economy. unfortunately, many companies still face financing difficulties. 66 percent of the start-ups that applied for bank loans in my country, belgium, in 2014 were either totally or partially denied the cover. the efforts already made by the eib through, among others, the european progress microfinance facility are commendable, but i share the view of the report that the eib should further increase its lending capacity to smes and innovative start-ups. like the skills and jobs - investing in youth initiative, this demonstrates a much-needed trust in young people.
madam president, i believe that this international food fair has three priorities. firstly, the fight against waste: let us remember that in europe it amounts to 179 kilos per capita per year, or 90 million tonnes of waste per year. what we need to do in the future to feed everyone, before we think about producing more, is to fight against waste. secondly, food education, which we shall discuss again in the context of the debate on the report on the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools. obesity is on the rise, especially among youths and children. thirdly, i think this resolution will be fully useful if it also recognizes, alongside the existence of the agri-food industry, which is relevant for transforming agricultural production, subsistence agriculture in the countries of the rest of the world affected by malnutrition, which affects at least 800 million people. subsistence farming must be recognized through amendments which should be voted on, in order to underline the conclusions of olivier de schutter, the united nations rapporteur on food.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mrs d'amato, you spoke of the widespread use of pesticides. i just wanted to know what you meant by that concept?
madam president, among the preventive measures adopted this week against the introduction and spread of the bacterium xylella fastidiosa, the european commission is providing for the felling of diseased trees and the establishment of strict surveillance within a radius of 100 metres around each contaminated strain, as the commissioner has reminded us. although european co-financing is possible for grubbing up, no compensation is provided to help the affected farms and producers. in a study commissioned by the federazione coldiretti puglia, the damage was estimated at eur 400 per plant. the calculation is simple: if one hectare of land can contain approximately a hundred plants, we can estimate the damage per hectare at 40,000 euros, not counting the years to be multiplied for post-eradication. it is therefore essential to set up european aid to help the affected farms. only effective management of this outbreak will make it possible to protect the entire territory of the european union.
madam president, i would simply like to thank the co-signatories and colleagues who signed the written declaration 2015/004 to combat violence against women and to dedicate a year to this phenomenon. it is the first written declaration to receive a majority of signatures since the new system was introduced. my dear colleagues, please continue to sign because the deadline is 9 may.
in writing. ‒ excessive alcohol consumption is the third leading cause of preventable death and disease in europe. however, alcohol abuse can lead not only to numerous chronic diseases but also to other problems, such as social exclusion. it is therefore of great importance that the alcohol strategy, which expired in 2012, is replaced. the main instruments for preventing alcohol abuse are information campaigns, particularly aimed at young people and pregnant women, and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. in addition, investment in education is to be made in order to understand the behaviour of those affected and the cultural differences in alcohol consumption and to be able to intervene more effectively. i welcome the measures taken under the new alcohol strategy to curb alcohol abuse and promote responsible use of alcohol.
in writing. – the alcohol strategy vote was on the initiative of the european parliament itself. parliament wanted to remind the commission and the council that alcohol abuse can be as harmful as drug abuse. although it is important to inform people about the consequences of alcohol abuse, i do not believe that overregulating in this matter works. i believe that the european citizen, when informed, can choose for himself or herself whether or not to drink alcohol. european citizens must have the freedom to make their own informed choices.
in writing. ‒ harmful alcohol use remains one of the main causes of illness and premature death in the eu and is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases. driving under the influence remains one of the main causes of fatal accidents on the road. harmful use of alcohol is also linked to numerous social problems and causes much human suffering. in addition, the cost to society is estimated at eur 155.8 billion (2010). the non-legislative resolution rightly calls attention to this problem. prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles remain necessary. the text also explicitly stresses that subsidiarity and proportionality must be clearly defined: the competent authorities in the member states are indeed best placed to develop tailor-made policies to prevent and combat the harmful use of alcohol. the eu can support the competent authorities where this adds value, for example through research, the collection of reliable and comparable data and the exchange of best practices. the n-va supported the resolution in this light. this support does not take away the fact that the n-va considers the resolution too normative on several points.
in writing. ‒ the last eu alcohol strategy was adopted in 2006. in 2013, the european commission expressed its intention to develop a plan to reduce alcohol-related harm. the launch of this plan was to take place between may and september 2014. the resolution recalls its commitments to the commission and calls on it to go further: in addition to the action plan to support member states' policies in the fight against alcohol-related harm, the resolution calls for a new overall european strategy. the text adopted contains a number of detailed points: labelling of the calories contained in alcoholic beverages (which i am not in favour of), prevention labelling (dangers of alcohol at the wheel; for pregnant women, etc.), re-evaluation of the use of flavouring substances, protection of minors against the harmful consequences of alcohol abuse, intensification of education on the dangers of alcohol consumption, reduction of young people's exposure to advertising for alcoholic beverages, promotion of policies promoting healthy lifestyles, introduction of national policies to prevent the sale of very cheap alcohol, etc.
in writing. ‒ although the member states have the main levers to act in the fight against alcoholism (prevention and awareness campaigns), the european union has a say and should have renewed its alcohol strategy, which expired in 2012. this is the message that meps are sending out by adopting this afternoon the resolution calling for strong european action in this area. the first concerns the labelling of ingredients and the calorie content of alcoholic beverages. the recent voluntary initiative by brewers to introduce such labelling, in the interests of transparency for consumers, is welcome and should inspire other sectors of alcoholic products. the commission's statements in monday's debate are also in the right direction: a report on the feasibility of labelling, as required by the 2011 consumer information regulation. the european parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union, calling on the commission to take action to combat the spread of the virus. two visible, legible symbols that can save lives.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today in favour of calorie labelling on all bottles of alcohol, including wine, to help fight alcoholism and obesity. the text calls on the commission to act as soon as possible, and at the latest by the end of 2016, to impose this labelling, from which alcohol was exempted in 2011, when the measure was decided for all food and non-alcoholic beverages. the text also calls on the european executive to consider labelling bottles with prevention messages for pregnant women and drivers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ better regulation of alcohol consumption could have major health benefits for europe. that is why i approved these recommendations. this is not a political action against alcohol consumption, but an attempt to better inform citizens about the fact that abuse is the cause of dozens of chronic diseases, including liver disease, cancer, diabetes and obesity. while the eu has long required that the amount of sugar, fat and protein contained in almost all food and drink be clearly indicated on the packaging, this is not yet the case for alcoholic beverages. the fact that the nutritional value and therefore the number of calories is not mentioned on the labels of alcoholic beverages is the result of strong lobbying by the industry. now the parliamentary health committee wants action. it's important that people know that pints have a decent nutritional value. the european commission should have come up with concrete proposals for the indication of calorie values on labels as early as december 2014. at the moment, they're still not there. that's a sobering thought. the ep wants the commission to submit these proposals without delay. the resolution calls on the european commission to develop a new european strategy on alcohol for the period 2016-2022, in close cooperation with the member states and all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted in favour of a resolution introducing labelling of alcoholic products and calling for legislation to be put in place. it should be noted that europeans are the world's largest consumers of alcohol. yet, no one knows the calorie count, the composition, or the energy value of what they drink. europe is slow to regulate. the legislative position was already expected in 2014, but still no news: this is not acceptable! alcoholic beverages must be subject to the same regulatory labelling regime as other foodstuffs. in 2011, alcoholic beverages were removed from the food labelling legislation, at the behest of the industry lobby. the european parliament has sent an excellent signal by its overwhelming vote today. it's time to end this particular diet. we want to play the transparency card. the consumer has a right to know!
in writing. ‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building on 24 april 2013 in bangladesh, 1,100 textile workers lost their lives. it was the worst industrial disaster the country has ever seen. parliament welcomed the fact that the commission had taken the necessary steps to ensure that the aid was not used to finance the damage caused by the disaster. parliament also condemned the fact that one third of the companies linked to the plant had not paid money to the donors' fund to compensate the victims and their families. parliament also welcomed the eu's sustainability pact, which aims to improve working conditions and the rights of bangladeshi workers.
in writing. ‒ decent work should enable workers to provide for themselves and their families. the fact that the conditions in the textile sector led to the deaths of more than 1 100 textile workers in the bengal factories supplying finished garments to multinational chains is inhuman and unacceptable. in the meantime, a number of important steps have been taken to address the harsh working conditions. under the sustainability pact, the eu, the international labour organisation and the government of bangladesh have increased the number of building inspections and raised minimum wages. the resolution calls for further action to ensure the sustainable protection of workers' rights in the international textile production chain. companies must take responsibility and contribute to the compensation fund for the victims. but there is also a need to consider responsible international supply chains and the establishment of a structural mechanism for compensation for accidents at work in bangladesh. we also call on the government of bangladesh to better protect freedom of association throughout the country and to enshrine it in law, in line with international standards. freedom of association is crucial to preventing tragedies and to creating sustainable work with living wages and dignified work in the textile production chain.
in writing. ‒ two years ago, the rana plaza factory collapsed in bangladesh, killing a large number of textile workers (1100 people lost their lives). since the tragedy, thanks to the bangladesh sustainability pact and the active support of the eu and the ilo, some changes have been made: agreements to improve factory inspections and standards for electrical and fire safety, an increase in the minimum wage, the adoption of a law on the formation of trade unions, etc. the pact aims to ensure that there is long-term follow-up as there is still much to be done: fighting anti-union discrimination and corruption of health and safety inspectors, urging bangladesh to act as a priority on all its commitments, etc. the fund set up to collect donations from businesses to compensate victims and families is still short of $3 million (out of 30). we must ensure that all compensation is paid. i supported this text without reservation.
two years ago, the rana plaza factory in bangladesh collapsed. this tragedy, which claimed the lives of over 1,100 workers, illustrated the human cost of producing cheap clothing in unsafe conditions. the international public outcry over this tragedy has led to a change in the attitudes of all the actors involved. to give a better future to textile production in bangladesh, the eu initiative "sustainability pact bangladesh" was launched with the support of the ilo. this agreement has led to better labour inspections, improved working conditions, an increase in the minimum wage and the ability of workers to organise. the sustainability pact aims to ensure that the situation is monitored in the longer term. in order to achieve the objectives, the efforts and commitment of the government of bangladesh in capacity building for safe and healthy working environments, better pay and the right to organise for workers need to be further intensified. with 4 million workers, the textile industry is a major economic sector in bangladesh. safe working conditions, a fair price, a decent wage and the guarantee of freedom of association for workers are essential factors in achieving sustainable economic growth in bangladesh.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april, the european parliament paid tribute to the victims of the collapse of a textile factory in dhaka, bangladesh. by voting this afternoon, he wants to encourage the changes that were planned in the 2013 sustainable development pact agreement. bangladesh already appears to be making progress in terms of social responsibility towards workers in the textile sector, which employs nearly 4 million people. as for the commitments made by some clothing brands linked to this factory to ensure transparency throughout the manufacturing process, from raw materials to the finished product, one in three manufacturers did not pay a single penny to the donors' fund. some even refused to disclose the amount they donated. the text voted this afternoon by the ep clearly sets out the main features, and the others in the face of their responsibilities, those who clearly fail to meet their responsibilities will now be denounced. the involvement of brands must be intensified to put an end to these medieval practices. exposure to chemicals and lack of safety regulations are turning these sweatshops into giant graveyards. renovating buildings, strengthening safety rules and improving working conditions are the priority. #mrk
in writing. ‒ april 24 marked the sad anniversary of the 2013 tragedy at the rana plaza garment factory in dhaka, bangladesh. the spectacular collapse of the building claimed the lives of 1,134 people, mostly textile workers. bangladesh is the second largest clothing exporter in the world. 60% of these exports are destined for the european union. in these circumstances, the union had to react and assume its responsibilities by adopting measures to improve the working conditions and the safety and health of workers in bangladesh. the european parliament voted today a resolution, which i co-signed, on the state of the garment industry in the country. it calls on the government of bangladesh, major international brands, the ilo and other stakeholders to continue efforts to improve the working conditions and safety of workers in bangladesh. as european consumers, we have a responsibility. we should be aware that clothes that we can buy cheaply often have a human cost. the safety of textile workers in bangladesh and elsewhere in the world must be guaranteed, and it is priceless.
in writing. - we can weld clothes, but not workers' rights or human rights. two years after the tragedy, some brands are making efforts, often too timidly. others do nothing, like h&m. europe must impose sanctions on those who treat workers like cattle.
in writing. ‒ the european union must respond effectively and in solidarity to avoid repeating human tragedies in the mediterranean. the necessary means must be deployed to save human lives, to tackle criminal networks of human traffickers and to provide concrete solutions for the stability and development of countries of origin or transit. it is also high time to pursue a genuine immigration policy at european level based on solidarity between states and a comprehensive approach.
in writing. in the face of human tragedy, the emergency is first and foremost humanitarian. human life is priceless and the european mobilization must be universal. the flagrant lack of responsiveness, solidarity and responsibility of some member states is a flaw in our european system. the union must now become a leading actor and concentrate its efforts on joint actions mainly carried out by frontex. but we must remember that the root cause of this tragedy is the poor governance in the countries of origin. we must hold the governments of origin and transit to account by strengthening our cooperation so that they can better control their territory and ensure economic development with a fair distribution of wealth. we must also break the chains of smugglers, the real criminals exploiting human despair as a commodity. to this end, large-scale european operations must be set up quickly.
in writing. ‒ on 19 april, 800 migrants fleeing conflict and persecution lost their lives when their boat of opportunity, which was taking them to a better world, sank. in the face of this terrible humanitarian tragedy, the european parliament reaffirmed its determination to fight ferociously against smugglers, the real criminals who exploit human despair as a commodity. this tragic event is unfortunately only the most important of a growing phenomenon. since 1 january this year, 24 000 people have reached the italian coast at the risk of their lives, thousands have been rescued at sea and the less fortunate, more than 1 500, have never made it to a safe port and have drowned in the mediterranean. today's emergency is a humanitarian one, and the response must be swift and effective. the budget for operation triton (border surveillance) will be tripled from 2.9 million to 9 million euros per month, but to tackle this scourge europe will have to propose more concrete measures, such as making frontex a genuine border protection agency, developing a humanitarian visa system that would not force migrants to rely on criminal networks, or implementing a genuine community asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ less than a week after the european summit on the migration crisis in the mediterranean following the tragedies at sea, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for the mandate of operation triton, led by the frontex agency, to be clarified in order to increase its area of operation and be extended to eu-wide search and rescue operations. the text of the resolution also stresses that operation triton should resemble a permanent and robust european humanitarian rescue operation on the high seas, to which all member states would contribute financially. member states should continue to demonstrate solidarity and commitment by increasing their contributions to the budgets and operations of frontex and the european asylum support office. on this point, i welcome jean-claude juncker's decision to release €120 million for 2015 to enable the triton budget to be tripled and i share his disappointment at the council's refusal to tackle the problem of illegal immigration. the resolution also calls for greater efforts by the 28 on the issue of humanitarian visas and the strengthening of the fight against smugglers and traffickers and criminal sanctions.
in writing. ‒ europe is fighting for a banking union and an economic union. it's also time she thought about a humanitarian union. it is essential that the european union responds to the recent tragedies in the mediterranean on the basis of the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, in accordance with article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and on the basis of a comprehensive european approach. it should also focus on fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity towards those member states which host the largest numbers of refugees and asylum seekers, both in absolute and relative terms.
in writing. ‒ on 19 april this year, some 800 people lost their lives fleeing persecution and conflict in their home countries. they died in the mediterranean, seeking a more humane existence that they hoped to find in europe. that hope is exploited by people smugglers who use criminal practices to make money off the backs of these people in their misery. the european union has already taken action to help the victims of the war in afghanistan. the european parliament has voted in favour of declaring war on these smugglers. we agree to a tripling of triton's resources but i fear that is by no means enough to deal with this influx of refugees. we need to focus on the causes of migration rather than just migration itself.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina has not yet made the necessary adjustments to the interim agreement following the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 june 2013. the eu therefore wishes to suspend the automatic renewal of the autonomous trade agreements with bosnia and herzegovina. the eu will re-establish the preferential tariff quotas for bosnia and herzegovina if the adjustment is made. i welcome this measure and hope that an agreement will be reached soon and accepted by both sides.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to put an end to an exceptional trade regime which had been in place for bosnia and herzegovina when croatia was not yet a member of the union. however, since the accession of croatia, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the trade regime granted to it under the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with the union. if no agreement is reached on this by the end of the year, the preferences granted to bosnia and herzegovina could be suspended as from 1 january 2016.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the directive will also be extended to cover the use of energy from renewable sources, such as wind, solar, wind energy, wind turbines, and wind turbines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report which urges bosnia and herzegovina to adopt the interim agreement on preferential trade with croatia and at the same time calls on both parties to take account of mutual interests in order to conclude an agreement satisfactory both for the eu member states and for the members of the alliance.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its approval to this report on exceptional trade measures for the benefit of the countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process, and the suspension of their application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ on 2 april 2015, 148 students of the christian faith were killed by the somali terrorist group al-shabaab in a massacre at a kenyan university. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the country, and to provide information on the situation in the country. however, other regions are also experiencing a massive increase in religiously motivated violence, such as syria and iraq (is/da'ish). i condemn in the strongest terms the acts of violence motivated by religion and welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament on the 'persecution of christians in the world in connection with the murder of students in kenya by the islamist terrorist group al-shabaab'.
in writing. ‒ on april 2, 2015, al-shabaab militants entered the campus of garissa university in kenya and killed 148 students, targeting mostly non-muslim students. the european parliament wishes to express its solidarity with the victims and their families. parliament also called on the kenyan authorities to avoid any polarization by opposing muslims and christians. parliament called on the eu to adopt a comprehensive and coordinated response to combat radicalisation and the financing of terrorism. indeed, the root of the problem of terrorism must be tackled if this global threat is to be eradicated.
in writing. ‒ the massacre of 147 students at kenya's garissa university is part of a series of atrocities by the terrorist group al-shabaab, which has already claimed responsibility for several large-scale attacks in kenya over the past 20 months, including the westgate shopping centre attack in nairobi, in which 67 people were killed, and two attacks in mandera county in late 2014, in which 64 people were killed. i supported the resolution because it condemns these savage murders and, more generally, the violence to which christian minorities are now subject, particularly in many countries of the african continent. i hope that my political group will be more active and more determined in denouncing the persecution of religious and ethnic minorities.
in writing. ‒ on april 2nd, in garissa, kenya, 147 students were murdered in cold blood, 79 others were injured, by members of the terrorist group al-shabaab. what was the motive for the murder ? religion, beliefs, where you came from. the number of attacks on religious minorities around the world has increased dramatically in recent months. christians were the target. that is why i have this afternoon wholeheartedly supported all the amendments tabled by the epp, which recall the harsh treatment of the christian community throughout the world. every day, hundreds of christians are being slaughtered, beaten and arrested by islamic terrorists. over 150,000 of them are murdered every year, just because they are christians. the murder of these christian students once again reveals the horror of jihadist groups. a reality that shows how these armies are engaged, in the name of islam, in a planned strategy not only of territorial expansion, but of extermination. #mrk
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the recent attacks in various countries against christian communities and reaffirms its solidarity with all persecuted christians in various parts of africa, particularly following the atrocities in kenya, libya, nigeria and sudan. the number of attacks on religious minorities around the world, especially christians, has increased exponentially in recent months. the number of christians murdered each year now exceeds 150,000...
in writing. ‒ we cannot accept that people are killed for the sake of their faith, regardless of their religion. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. i would like to express my deep concern at the misuse of religion by the perpetrators of terrorist acts in various parts of the world. the use of religion in various conflicts is not without its critics. the increasing number of terrorist attacks on churches around the world, including the one that killed 14 in pakistan on march 15, 2015, is a cause for concern.
in writing. ‒ in view of the recent destruction and looting of cultural monuments and sites, particularly in syria and iraq, i welcome this joint motion for a resolution. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's cultural heritage is protected. in addition, proceeds from the illegal sale of works of art are channelled directly to terrorist groups, in particular is/da'esh, thus becoming a means of financing terrorism.
in writing. ‒ recently, there have been many destructions of archaeological monuments in iraq, syria and tunisia. the vast majority of this destruction was perpetrated by groups linked to the islamic state. parliament condemned and deplored the cultural cleansing of syria and iraq by the islamic state. parliament also called on the eu high representative to take action to protect the cultural and archaeological heritage in these countries. parliament called on the commission to support all the initiatives promoted by unesco to safeguard and protect the cultural heritage of iraq and syria.
in writing. ‒ many archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria, iraq and tunisia are now being targeted for destruction by extremist groups linked to the islamic state group. according to unesco, these attacks on cultural heritage are a real "cultural cleansing". they are also crimes against humanity and crimes of persecution. the illicit trade in cultural goods is the third largest illicit market after narcotics and arms. this trade is dominated by organized criminal networks. it is essential to put an end to this through a european strategy and the help of the member states. security measures must be implemented at eu borders to prevent cultural goods from syria or iraq from being smuggled across eu borders. we must do everything possible to prevent further looting and destruction and to protect civilian lives.
in writing. ‒ nearly 300 sites of syrian cultural heritage have been destroyed, damaged or looted in more than three years of war. adding to the civil war is the threat posed by the islamic state (is) group, which is accused in iraq of destroying historic sites and, at the same time, selling antiquities to finance itself. isis considers statues to be idolatry, and has dynamited many churches and other monuments, shrines of christian, jewish or muslim heritage. let's not forget that isil has complete control of the communications channels. it is likely that some of the works that are supposedly destroyed are in fact only copies, the originals, priceless and loaded with history, being sold to the highest bidders in order to continue financing their barbaric terrorism. finally, i would like to denounce this cultural extermination, not to mention the human extermination that marks the daily lives of syrians and all the inhabitants living, or rather surviving, in the entire area of influence of the group "islamic state". all dictatorships have always been based on fear and blackmail. it's the same here. europe cannot just sit by and watch the united states negotiate with the bloodthirsty bashar al-assad, nor can it watch this part of the world burn to the ground!
in writing. ‒ in view of the recent escalation of tension in the maldives, parliament expressed its concern at the political crisis in which the country is sinking and called on the eu high representative to monitor the situation closely.
in writing. ‒ the maldives is among the worst countries in the world in terms of torture and intimidation of the opposition, media and civil society. many authoritarian deviations are deplorable, such as the reintroduction of the death penalty. currently, in the maldives, minors can be sentenced as young as seven years old and executed as young as eighteen. in the meantime, they're in jail. this is an intolerable situation, contrary to international human rights obligations and the convention on the rights of the child. i support the motion to reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty. i also regret the serious irregularities in the trial of the former president, two former ministers and the former vice-president of the house. i support the demand that they be released and their rights respected. i support the call for an immediate end to political interference and the depoliticization of the maldivian judicial system. i call for a credible and open political process involving all democratic forces, with a view to restoring and preserving stability in the maldives and putting the country back on the path of democratic transition.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, which i co-signed, the european parliament calls on all parties in the maldives to avoid any action that could aggravate the increasingly marked authoritarian drift and to respect democracy and the rule of law. the text calls for a credible and open political process involving all democratic forces and an immediate end to the intimidation of political opponents and political interference. the text also calls for an immediate end to all forms of violence against peaceful protesters, critical media and civil society. parliament also called for the depoliticization of the maldivian judicial system and for urgent reforms to guarantee the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. deploring the 'serious irregularities' in the trial of former president mohamed nasheed, we demanded his immediate release and full respect for his rights, should his conviction be overturned on appeal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to clarify the situation in the maldives. the conviction of former president mohamed nasheed for breaching anti-terrorism legislation raises very serious questions about the rule of law in the maldives. respect for the rule of law, the right to a fair trial, due process and the independence of the judiciary, as provided for in the iccpr, are essential elements of the democratic process. the citizens of the maldives, including former president nasheed, must be treated with respect for these important principles in a pluralistic society! the european union must follow the situation in the maldives more closely, the issue of respect for the rule of law must be raised at the un human rights council's universal periodic review of the maldives.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual follow-up report on albania's application for membership. the european parliament welcomes in particular the fact that the country was granted candidate country status in june 2014. parliament also welcomed the establishment of joint working groups to strengthen cooperation in the fields of justice, the fight against crime and the fight against corruption, among others. parliament also expressed concern at the continuing political division in the country and called for a climate of confidence to be established.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the neighbouring countries such as albania must stop. this country, which was granted candidate status in june 2014, certainly needs a european perspective, but it does not meet european standards today. the difficult economic and social situation in the eu requires increased vigilance. european decision-makers want to pay much more attention to chapters 23 ('judiciary and fundamental rights') and 24 ('justice, freedom, security'). in this respect, the 2014 follow-up report on albania indicates significant progress to be made in five priority areas, namely public service reform, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime, and improving the protection of human rights. these are all areas which are at the heart of the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ in this follow-up resolution, meps called on the ruling coalition and the opposition in albania to cooperate in a responsible and constructive manner. parliament also noted that the fight against organised crime remains a major challenge in the country. the resolution also calls on albania to do more to ensure the independence, efficiency and accountability of the judiciary and to guarantee the independence of the public broadcaster.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we can welcome the fact that albania has been granted the status of candidate country. this step should be seen as an incentive to continue reform efforts. concrete measures and long-term political commitment are needed to consolidate the democratic transition and to successfully pursue the reforms inherent in the process of accession to the european union. we must be vigilant to ensure that these reforms produce convincing results.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina's application for membership. parliament welcomed the council's response to its call for a review of the union's approach to bosnia and herzegovina. parliament also called on the country's political leaders to avoid any nationalist rhetoric which would increase divisions in bosnian society. parliament also expressed concern at the inefficiency of the judicial system and the extent of corruption in the country.
in writing. ‒ we do not vote in favour of this resolution because we do not share the underlying denial of the constituent peoples as the main constituent of the state system of a multi-ethnic state. on the one hand, we too believe that the action of every level of government should be geared to efficiency gains. on the other hand, we believe that the negation of the different policy preferences of the peoples who make up the community does not contribute to the further peaceful development of a multi-ethnic state in which the memories of violent conflict have yet to be healed.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the president-designate of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, declared in the house that 'there will be no further enlargement in the next five years'. a sensible proposal which was one of the priorities of the mr programme in the last european elections. the need to consolidate europe before enlarging it does not mean that the negotiations with the neighbouring countries such as bosnia-herzegovina must stop. this country, which has been a potential candidate for membership of the european union since 2003, certainly needs a european perspective, but today it is still far from european standards. the difficult economic and social situation in the eu requires increased vigilance. european decision-makers want to pay much more attention to chapters 23 ('judiciary and fundamental rights') and 24 ('justice, freedom, security'). the 2014 monitoring report on bosnia and herzegovina thus highlights the country's continuous efforts to integrate into the eu. progress still needs to be made in political and economic matters, but also in taking account of the interests of the citizen. concrete measures must be taken without delay at several national levels.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution on the 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina that we adopted, we called on the new leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to agree with the european union on a well-defined roadmap to establish a broad and open reform timetable. and encouraged these leaders to fully commit to achieving the necessary institutional, economic and social reforms. as such, reform of the judiciary and of the fragmented, politicized and dysfunctional public administration is paramount. moreover, the political impasse, the overly complex and inefficient institutional architecture, and the lack of cooperation between political leaders are currently seriously hampering the country's stabilisation and development.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. i encourage the new political leaders to avoid any divisive nationalist and separatist rhetoric that polarizes society, to seriously undertake reforms to improve the lives of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, to create a functioning, pluralistic and democratic state and to bring the country closer to the european union. otherwise, nothing will be possible.
in writing. ‒ the key issue for the eib at the moment is the creation of the structural and investment funds (esif). the fund is intended to transfer funds to weak regions, especially those with high unemployment and low economic growth. the commission will therefore be required to increase the number of workers. the report also stresses that the eib is not a bank with commercial interests but a catalyst for the financing of sound public and long-term private investment. i welcome the annual report of the european investment bank for 2013.
in writing. ‒ in this dossier, we have been thinking about how to develop the eib, since in the coming months the place that this institution will occupy in the european economy will be even more important. it will be responsible for managing the billions of euros in the juncker plan: over 300 billion euros that will be invested in the european economy to boost activity and create jobs. as the socialist group's representative on this issue, i have insisted that the eib should make sustainable investments; i think about buildings that use little energy. i also stressed one very damaging element for the european economy. in its investments, the eib does not invest directly in projects, but relies on financial intermediaries. and unfortunately, sometimes these intermediaries are based in tax havens, in luxembourg, in the cayman islands or in mauritius. this is clearly unacceptable and the eib will have to avoid these intermediaries in the future. i hope that these recommendations will make it possible to invest sustainably in the future and to revive the european economy.
in writing. – the 2013 european investment bank (eib) annual report is very important as it considers the activities of the eib as the largest public investor in the european economy and a catalyst for long-term private and public investment. i voted in favour of the report because it had the right focus in the current environment: the focus on smes, investments and governance is crucial for sustainable economic growth. the report also includes a strong section on transparency and financial intermediation and it correctly reflects the situation around climate and energy. a less positive element was the excess detail included on some areas that do not belong in the report – for instance, the detailed information around the european fund for strategic investment belongs in the efsi regulation, which is still being negotiated in trilogues. going forward, the report should increasingly consider the eib’s evolving role in an evolving landscape. the eib must strengthen its competitive position in the global market and must adapt itself to meet the needs of the market. we shall follow the eib closely to see if it is executing its role in a less bureaucratic way and more in line with market practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which considers that all possible resources of the member states and the european union, including those of the eib, must be effectively mobilised without delay to support public and private investment, boost competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and promote the creation of quality jobs and infrastructure, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and taking into account that the eib has a mission to support social cohesion and is able to provide meaningful support to member states facing difficulties in the current difficult socio-economic context.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the report by mr urtasun. although the eib has already made efforts to improve its operations, i remain concerned about the bank's operations, including the lack of transparency and accountability. in view of the important role that the eib will play in the development of the juncker plan, these shortcomings need to be addressed as a matter of urgency. the report we have adopted today rightly expresses concern about some of the projects supported by the eib, both in terms of their added value for the economy and in terms of environmental sustainability. instead of investing in controversial fossil fuel projects (such as the castor gas storage facility in catalonia) or road construction (such as the 'passante di mestre' motorway in italy, where there was a suspicion of mafia interference), the eib should go all in to supporting small-scale sustainable and energy-efficient projects, and stop financing non-renewable forms of energy. we also ask that the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), in which the eib will play a major role, invest in those areas where the benefits for employment are greatest, taking into account strict social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ on the advice of the experts in my political group, i voted in favour of the text. however, the improvement of the eib's financial instruments does not replace the economic and structural policy reforms implemented at national level to foster sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ recognising that the theme of the 2015 world expo in milan - feeding the planet, energy for life - provides an opportunity to address global food challenges and imbalances, including food waste, undernutrition, obesity and global warming, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to take action to ensure the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and reliable food.
in writing. ‒ tomorrow is the opening of the 34th world's fair. the expo not only offers numerous economic opportunities but, through its chosen themes, can also be a catalyst for addressing various global challenges, in particular the demand for healthy, sustainable and quality food. flanders, the region i represent, will be prominently present at the world expo to put its innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship firmly on the map. i attended the press conference recently where the flemish actions were proposed and was particularly impressed. the whole food chain is characterised by flemish expertise: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of foodstuffs, from production, land use and food safety to food surpluses and packaging to waste treatment. thanks to the commitment of many partners, flemish craftsmanship, which offers creative solutions to the challenges of tomorrow, is being presented in an excellent way. it also links up with a theme we are currently discussing in the eu, namely the transition to a circular economy that is more efficient in the use of raw materials and treats waste as a material. i am therefore pleased to announce that in september i will be able to provide a forum to bring some of these flemish best practices to the attention of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ five years after shanghai, the world food fair, on the theme of how well the world eats, opens in milan tomorrow and will run until 31 october. under the slogan 'feeding the planet, energy for life', the 2015 world expo focuses on one of the most important global issues to avoid growing imbalances on the planet. indeed, the beginning of the 21st century is marked by two disturbing phenomena: on the one hand, nearly 900 million people worldwide suffer from malnutrition; on the other, about 1 billion people, mainly in the richest countries, are overweight or obese. this is why, during the six months of this international event, which brings together 145 countries and 53 national pavilions, the aim is to inform and raise awareness among industrial players, citizens and the media on the problems of sustainable consumption, nutritional diversity and food waste. we hope that the milan exhibition, beyond the beauty of the pavilions, the meeting between tradition and modern agriculture, will provide a starting point for answering the question: how can we feed two billion more people by 2030?
in writing. ‒ solving the problem of food security requires strong and viable agricultural and fisheries sectors throughout the european union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment, and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly funded common agricultural policy. this is, in essence, what the european parliament called for in its resolution on the 2015 world expo in milan, which opened on friday 1 may. parliament stressed the need to implement a sustainable and adequately funded cfp (common fisheries policy), to ensure consistency between the union's trade and fisheries policies and to step up the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the biggest challenge of world hunger is to ensure that everyone can feed themselves and, most importantly, feed themselves with healthy food. in europe, more than 22 million children are overweight, while adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50 per cent of the recommended daily allowance of fruit and vegetables. in the light of these figures, i believe it is essential to promote a healthy and balanced diet from an early age, while re-educating young citizens to know about food and its origin and to become familiar with its taste and texture. it is only through education that we will promote responsible and healthy lifestyles. this is the approach taken in my report which was recently adopted by the agri committee on the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools. the new programme must be understood as both a fresh food distribution programme in schools and a food education programme and must be accompanied by a clearly defined health objective: to reduce childhood obesity and to encourage the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk.
in writing. ‒ the increasingly violent actions of boko haram and the increase in the geographical areas controlled by the group raise fears of the worst for nigeria, the most populous and ethnically and religiously diverse country on the african continent. parliament condemned the violence and deplored the massacres of innocents in the country. parliament also called on the international community to support the new nigerian president in his fight against the islamic group. however, parliament noted that the fight against terrorism must be conducted with respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ nigeriathe violence perpetrated by the terrorist group boko haram in nigeria has already killed more than 22,000 people since 2009. the united nations estimates that 1.5 million people, including 800,000 children, have been displaced. i supported the resolution condemning the atrocities committed by boko haram. the new president of nigeria must do everything possible to restore stability and security throughout the country. this includes taking firm action against internal corruption, mismanagement and inefficiency in public institutions and the military. the fight against terrorism is never an isolated fight. the whole economic community of west african states and the african union must therefore step up their response to boko haram terrorism and coordinate the fight against terrorist groups in the sahel region. without large-scale cooperation, the violence will continue. the international community must help nigerians who have taken refuge in neighbouring countries. we must also do everything possible to free the 2,276 women and girls kidnapped by boko haram since last year.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the ep gave its support to the new president of nigeria in his fight against boko haram. his challenge is to end the violence of the rebel group and to restore security and calm to his country. nigeria is the largest economy in africa. despite its immense resources, it is one of the most unequal countries in the world: more than 70% of its population lives on less than $1.25 a day, while 10% controls more than 90% of the wealth. since 2009, the country has been in a bloodbath, teased by the madness of the boko haram terrorist movement. anyone who did not adhere to their extreme dogmatic beliefs was executed, beaten, raped, or kidnapped. in april 2014, the world was shocked by the abduction of more than 270 girls from a public school in chibok city. we remember, it was followed by the poignant #bringbackourgirls awareness campaign. but how many others since then? nigeria needs help. the international community must redouble its efforts to combat the root causes of this form of terrorism: corruption, trafficking, embezzlement, etc. the recent rescue of nearly 300 girls and women in sambisa forest gives hope...#mrk
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which i supported, strongly condemns the wave of armed and bomb attacks, suicide bombings, sexual slavery and all other forms of sexual violence, kidnappings and other acts of violence committed by boko haram against civilian, governmental and military targets in nigeria. since 2009, boko haram violence has claimed more than 22,000 lives. the united nations estimates that 1.5 million people, including 800,000 children, have been displaced by violence in nigeria. parliament called on the nigerian authorities to do all they could to put an end to the violence and to tackle the root causes of terrorism, including corruption. he also urged neighbouring countries and the international community to cooperate in cutting off boko haram's financial resources. the text also recalls that all efforts must be made to find and release the 276 girls who were abducted by boko haram from a school near chibok more than a year ago, and the approximately 2000 additional girls and women who have been abducted since then.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. we strongly condemn the increasingly destabilising violence currently affecting nigeria, including the use of children as suicide bombers, in which thousands of people have been killed or injured and hundreds of thousands displaced. the massacre of innocent men, women and children cannot go unpunished and we are determined, alongside the nigerian people, to fight all forms of terrorism in the country. we call for concerted international action to stop the bloodshed, but we believe that such action must be facilitated by increased regional cooperation between states and other relevant actors!
for the ecr group the execution of eight death row inmates earlier this week caused a global uproar. the ecr group shares this indignation and condemns the execution of this barbaric punishment, both in principle and by virtue of article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. to remind us all, and especially the european leader who seems to have lost sight of the eu's view on the death penalty, of article 2, i repeat it here: "right to life: everyone has the right to live. no one shall be sentenced to death or executed". we respect indonesia's sovereignty and its authority to establish its own criminal laws. we all understand the fight against the global drug trade. it is a modern country with impressive economic development, but the moral aspect must not be lost sight of. it's manifested in many areas: from freedom of the press to freedom of expression to respect for fundamental human rights. the execution of the death penalty violates those human rights and is not a weapon to exercise authority. an appropriate response would have been to convert the death sentence into a life sentence or a long prison term. the people involved should be in prison, but they don't deserve to be killed. on behalf of the ecr group, my colleague charles tannock and i have written a letter to the indonesian government, asking for mercy. it couldn't have worked. i hope indonesia hears our signal today. stop the executions, please!
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, when we meet here to discuss the emergency, we are all in agreement, all in the same fight. dozens of cases could be dealt with every thursday in the emergency debates in strasbourg, so could you refrain from making political comments on the choice of topics in future? of course, there are priorities. from the moment three cases are chosen, we must all be behind the same cause. could you refrain from such comments in the future?
i am also glad that the european parliament can finally express its opinion on the case of nadia savchenko. nadia's not doing well. her health has deteriorated greatly in a very short time. she was admitted to a hospital in the early hours of the morning and is not being treated well, her lawyer says. nadia is being held by the russian authorities for political reasons. the burden of proof is a joke and can be refuted from the first word to the last. she doesn't know when she's going to be finally brought to trial. painful for a country that calls itself a great power. the signal that will leave this house may be directed directly to the leader in the kremlin. mr. president, what does the russian government's senseless imprisonment of this woman accomplish? nadia savchenko has become a symbol. you know you can't break symbols anymore. we know by now that you are a strong leader. you're loved in your own country for it. but now, show me you're a great leader. that means: i'm going to show you some generosity. you realize this conflict is getting us nowhere. give nadia her freedom back! what an impressive and hopeful gesture that would be!
the situation of refugees in the yarmouk camp has been humanly unbearable for more than three years. this resolution is certainly intended to alert the international public to this tragic situation, which is too little known. it also has an interest in the context of a conflict that is far from being resolved in syria. it is a sign of the role of the european union, which, together with other powers, must be able to act in the syrian conflict, which is itself at the root of many problems, such as the refugee crisis and the catastrophic humanitarian situation, but also forced migration, which is synonymous with human tragedies that should be alleviated. that is why this resolution is so relevant, and i hope that it will be supported by all members.
mr president, the right to demonstrate is a fundamental right: the possibility of peacefully expressing one's discontent, whether with the government in power, in support of an international cause or in recognition of its specific features. this right is one of the best means of communication and action for civil society and the political world. it was on the pretext of unarmed gatherings that the algerian judiciary decided to imprison nine workers' rights activists. they were sentenced to terms of imprisonment of six to eighteen months in a permanent prison, solely because they were publicly and peacefully demonstrating their support for the workers and the unemployed. we must demand the unconditional release of these activists who are defending their legitimate rights. law 91-19, which prohibits the right to peaceful assembly, and article 97 of the algerian penal code, which criminalizes it, must also be repealed. these laws are used as a pretext to cover up algerian judicial abuses and violate algeria's commitments under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights.
for the greens/efa group mr president, what is striking about the history of benchmarks is that breaches of the law have continued massively, well beyond the financial crisis. you'd think the financial crisis would have brought the industry back to a little bit of reason. but some of the mega financial institutions - we've mentioned deutsche bank, but there are many others - have had fun manipulating these indicators for their own benefit, for years, until today perhaps. some will say, "well, today they have been fined by the banks, not by the individuals". i would remind you that in some countries these fines are even tax deductible, so they are paid by the taxpayer. so it was obviously time for a new regulation to be introduced, and i thank cora van nieuwenhuizen for her work. we had a compromise practically until the end. in the end, however, some last-minute amendments have in fact removed from this regulation a number of indicators which would otherwise have been considered critical. as you have seen, we have a hard regime for critical indicators and a soft regime for indicators that are considered non-critical. a number of indicators are therefore excluded from this legislation. the only thing i can say is that i am glad that the member state which controls these indicators the most, the united kingdom, did not wait for the european parliament to adopt a much stricter regulation than the one we are approving today. however, i wonder, a bit like sylvie goulard, why, when it comes to financial regulation - we know we have a single market - we are ultimately leaving it to the discretion of the member states, with little control for esma, moreover, to enforce this regulation. we cannot therefore accept that the definition of a critical indicator should be left to the member states. if we can still amend the text tomorrow at the last minute with the amendments we are going to table, we will be in the majority.
for the greens/efa group the tobacco agreements with philip morris are seen as an important element in the fight against tobacco smuggling. but despite this agreement and the agreements with many other tobacco giants, such as japan tobacco, british american tobacco and imperial tobacco limited, this smuggling - as you yourself have said - still causes a deficit of some 10 billion euros a year in revenue, excise duties and vat. it seems that this figure will not go down, because i have been hearing this figure of 10 billion for years. in parliament, as you know, there are increasingly critical voices about this agreement. the dalli case is no stranger to that. the case of former senior civil servant michel petite, who became a consultant in a law firm working for pmi, is no stranger to this. the difficult debate and lobbying around the establishment of the tobacco directive is not new. and so we in this parliament are demanding general transparency of all the documents available on these tobacco agreements. mr sarvamaa has already said: the way we have to deal with this is absolutely inadequate. we have a lot of questions about these agreements. is it normal for us to enter into negotiations or discussions with pmi, which is also a company which is suing the european union over the tobacco directive? that seems very strange to me. moreover, is it in accordance with article 5 (3) of the who framework convention that we are simply having discussions with pmi? these are the questions we are asking in addition to the question of whether these agreements are really useful. you announced an evaluation. i'm really curious to see what's in it. a hearing here in the european parliament has resulted in [the president withholds the floor from the speaker].
mr president, with 12 years of experience, the cooperation agreement concluded in 2004 between the commission and philip morris is a lesson to be learned: compromise with the tobacco giants is probably not possible. so, to the credit of this agreement, the commission is claiming a decline in the illegal trade in cigarettes - we heard it - but the health experts, who i read and listen to, say exactly the opposite and specify that in 2012, the big four tobacco companies paid about 4 million euros, which is a small amount, only 0.5% of the estimated total sales of contraband cigarettes. the commission is telling us that, in principle, everything is in order from a legal point of view. i would like to say that, from the ethical and political point of view, we are not all in favour of this. this agreement is in particular in contradiction with article 5 (3) of the framework convention on tobacco control which requires absolute transparency - as has been said - on the direct links between policy makers and the tobacco industry, a guideline which we have applied scrupulously and to the letter, the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, and myself, as rapporteur on the tobacco products directive. i conclude, mr president, and i ask the vice-president to do the same: there is still time to do the same, namely to give up renewing this agreement and to invest in all the much more effective tools she has just mentioned.
we as the european union want to give e-commerce every chance. unfortunately, small players are overwhelmed by administrative burdens. i therefore ask - and it is clear that more people in this parliament have this question - that attention be paid to smes in the adaptation of existing legislation and in the new rules which the commission will propose during this legislature. the system as it exists today for automated electronic services has certainly been set up with the best of intentions. unfortunately, the impact on smaller businesses is greatly underestimated. as rapporteur for the report on better regulation, i therefore propose that the new proposals on the online trade in goods should be subject to a better impact assessment. 99% of our european companies are smes. we must learn from the past and give our smes the chance to grow further. e-commerce in the european union must be more than a few large players dominating the market. i therefore support the proposal to extend the system to goods purchased online, but with due regard for smes and with the least possible administrative burden.
- i'm the reporter. i am very pleased to be able to give a brief introduction at this late hour to the european parliament's own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes. i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and also the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy for their good cooperation. green growth is about seizing the opportunities that help make the transition to a more sustainable economy. it 's actually very simple: if we all continue to consume as we do today, we'll need as much as 40 percent more water and energy in the next 20 years. at this rate, we will also need three times as many natural resources by 2050. so it's important that we have a mind shift. we need to make the shift to a more sustainable, more efficient, but also low-carbon economy. we must also ensure that our policies create the right conditions for firms to innovate and invest and remain competitive. the global market for environmental goods and services is currently worth about eur 1 000 billion a year. it is estimated that this could double or even triple by 2020, and the green economy has continued to grow even during the economic crisis. europe is showing leadership in recycling and energy efficiency, and the challenge is to see how we can strengthen and maintain that leadership. that is the aim of my report. it is at the same time a summary of the opportunities that the green economy offers us, but on the other hand the report highlights some of the problems that smes face when they want to invest and join the story of the green economy and the circular economy. because i've been able to speak to a lot of companies and entrepreneurs personally, and a number of things always came up. the search for good funding, the administrative hassle they face, but also the knowledge needed to be able to invest in this area. it is therefore essential that business leaders become more familiar with alternative ways of financing, such as venture capital, but also crowdfunding. we must get rid of the idea that our economy can only be financed by debt and by banks. it's also about knowledge management. it is also about getting knowledge and access to knowledge to business leaders in order to innovate, but also getting the right information into the field. the need for enterprises to keep abreast of new technological developments is growing and the role of sectoral associations is particularly important. they can really guide and help their members on their way to the latest technology, the latest funding opportunities and also share knowledge with each other. we must continue to encourage research and development and innovation in order to remain a market leader, but also to find new applications in the green economy. it is not so much a question of granting additional subsidies, since only 9% of new firms use subsidies, but it is important to look at how we can make a good combination of available financial resources and the innovation sought. if i look at the situation in belgium, it is also about us changing the legislation. 65 per cent of european legislation was made at a time when the internet, for example, was not a significant factor, so we must ensure that our legislation is future-proofed there too. these disruptive ideas need a framework that allows development, that pushes development further than it is today. we must dare to look at ourselves. we must also dare to look at the way in which we can make our legislation more transparent, clearer, sometimes lighter, in order to give new opportunities, new companies every chance to remain competitive. that will bring about the return of growth in europe. this will create new jobs and ultimately lead to greater well-being for our citizens.
mr president, the question we have to ask ourselves today is: why is it that the vast majority of the people living in regions rich in natural resources continue to be deprived of the income necessary for their development, but, above all, continue to be victims of atrocious crimes, massacres, rapes of women and children? ten years ago, in the context of the mapping report on the democratic republic of congo, the united nations already said that the abundance of natural resources in the democratic republic of congo and especially the lack of regulation and accountability in this sector had clearly contributed directly to the widespread violations and that state or private companies, national or foreign, could bear heavy responsibility for these crimes that were committed in the country. this situation is not unique to the democratic republic of congo. there is a general worldwide discussion about the curse of resources that enriches the north and impoverishes the south. it is to end this curse of resources that we call for a transparent and responsible management of the trade in these resources. in 2010, a step forward was taken with the passage of the dodd-frank act in the united states. this law requires us companies to provide detailed information about their sourcing at the sites. and contrary to what my colleague mrs de sarnez says, this dodd-frank act has brought change in the countries of origin. although it took time, she made changes. under pressure, europe is taking up the issue. in 2010 and 2011, the european parliament voted in favour of transparency on conflict minerals, in order to break the link between the wild exploitation of minerals and conflict. in 2013, the commission proposes a regulation but, contrary to the ambition of parliament, this regulation is timid, if not unambitious, in its voluntary nature. twenty years have already passed since the un report, and we are still debating it today. millions of deaths today are at stake. our group is calling for an ambitious regulation immediately, which would require all companies using 3g networks throughout the supply chain in europe to comply with the duty to provide information. this binding option for the entire supply chain is, as dr mukwege says, the only political gesture capable of placing respect for human rights above the economic interest of some. our european credibility is at stake.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to ask mr cicu a question: do you think that the united states pays less attention to its companies than the europeans? do you think that mandatory legislation in the united states was detrimental to american businesses? no, i'm not going. the legislation we are proposing today does not harm european businesses. so what are your arguments in relation to what the united states has done and in relation to what we should do? why does it take europe 20 years to make a provision whereas it takes the united states one year to make a provision? give me an argument, mr. cicu. i'm not sure i can.
mr president, dr mukwege, our sakharov prize winner, has urged us to introduce strict controls on the exploitation of minerals which finance conflicts. i must say to you, madam commissioner, and to the rapporteur, that what you are proposing is not at all in keeping with that request. he has spoken at length about the dramatic collateral effects of our passivity and the false arguments of feasibility or bureaucracy that you mobilize to do nothing. limiting the obligation to comply with the duty of care to smelters, refiners and importers of ores and metals without any duty of information for the 879 000 downstream companies i.e. 99% of the companies concerned has more disadvantages than advantages for european companies. why would you do that? because, having no obligation, downstream companies will always have the choice to buy conflict minerals from other international operators not covered by the regulation, or even to source through the illegal trafficking channel. there is therefore a major economic reason - which some people obviously do not want to understand - for european companies to impose a minimum duty of information on all companies. that is the meaning of the amendment i tabled to the draft. all these companies have to do is declare the identity of their direct suppliers, and they are not asked to provide an audit or a report. it is therefore a minimal constraint, without any bureaucratic overload, and painless for smes. in doing so, a differentiated treatment is applied which provides for much higher requirements for smelters, refiners and importers of ores and metals, and a simple duty of information for others. support for this amendment would allow a large majority of parliament to make substantial progress...
the digital economy is growing just a little bit more than seven times faster than our regular economy, and so it could really be a lever to make sure that we create quality jobs and really prepare our society for that digitalization. unfortunately, as we know, europe is not doing well in this respect. we are lagging behind a number of other very important players in the world. there's good news, but there's also some less good news today. the good news is that you are coming up with an initiative on the digital single market, and that is good and important. we support that. your analysis and problem-setting are correct, but we do expect a little more action. we really want to see investment in infrastructure that provides access for everyone. we want our society to be prepared for e-commerce and e-governance, but above all we want people's privacy to be respected and it to be a process that every citizen in europe can benefit from. we'd like to see some action before that.
last week we finally got a glimpse of the long-awaited plan for a more digital europe proposed by commissioner ansip. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection can confirm - and we have heard many testimonies in this committee - that there is indeed a great deal of work to be done to create this digital single market. we see that there are still far too many barriers that make it difficult or even impossible for consumers and producers to take advantage of the many digital opportunities that exist. i'm thinking of a netflix subscription, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the debate on the future of the european union. we also see that many companies still have a lot of administrative and financial burdens, because they often have to comply with the consumer rights of the 28 different member states. these thresholds must therefore be removed as soon as possible. your plan has broad objectives and does indeed seek to address some of those barriers, but in my view it is far too broad and lacks concrete action points. i fear that this will lead us to run after the facts on important points. it is important to engage in a constant dialogue with the stakeholders throughout the process, because they are the ones who ultimately know best where the problems lie. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the european single market must be a real opportunity for consumers to have access to goods and services that are sometimes not directly available in their country of residence or are more expensive there than abroad. it is also a boon for small, medium and large companies, which can thus expand their customer base. however, they must comply with european rules. for example, we can ask ourselves about the situation at disneyland paris, which is notoriously discriminatory towards european consumers. the company charges you 32 per cent more if you are wrongly identified as german and almost 40 per cent more if you are italian. there are still many obstacles to this digital market, and i am counting on the commission to take effective measures, as is its credibility in this sector where we are lagging behind. the first step is an investigation into eurodisney's illegal and anti-european practices.
madam president, i would like to refer to rule 11 (2) of our rules of procedure, which provides that the conduct of members is to be inspired by mutual respect, is to be based on the values and principles laid down in the fundamental texts of the european union and safeguards the dignity of parliament. but when a member of the european parliament attacks journalists verbally and then physically, beating them up, as mr gollnisch did two weeks ago to reporters from the petit journal on canal+, he is violating the dignity of parliament and our dignity. i hope, madam president, that we in the bureau of this parliament will have the opportunity to react, because this fact cannot be ignored, even if it is a naval one.
madam president, first of all my apologies to all colleagues that i have to intervene in the case of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity of mr uzpaskich, but mr uzpaskich has sent a letter to president schulz and i want to speak in support of referral back to the legal affairs committee. the reason, very briefly, is the following: in the legal affairs committee they got two sentences of something that mr uzpaskich said about justice in his country; but the recording contains far more than that. those two sentences have been taken out of context, because in what he said he makes reference to what the president of lithuania had said about the justice system in the country. so my only plea to the plenary is to refer the matter back to the legal affairs committee so that the legal affairs committee can listen to the whole recording and not only to the two sentences that were sent by the lithuanian authorities; that is my request.
in writing. ‒ this is simply a codification of council regulation (eec) no 2841/72. this new regulation replaces the various acts incorporated and preserves their substance in full.
in writing. ‒ i supported, with my colleagues, the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 between the european economic community and the swiss confederation having been substantially amended several times, it was necessary, in the interests of clarity and rationality, to codify it. that is the reason for the vote in plenary yesterday.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr duda and therefore i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted in plenary the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this council decision which relates to directive 98/84/ec, which establishes a common legal framework applicable throughout the union to combat illegal devices which allow unauthorised access to pay-tv services. in 1999, the council of europe drew up a european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. since many european states outside the union can be safe havens for the development or dissemination of hacking devices for such services, it was appropriate to create an effective common framework at european level for the protection of such services. however, before the council could ask parliament to approve the convention, the commission took the matter to the court of justice on the grounds that the council had based its decision to sign the convention on an incorrect legal basis. while the case was pending, it was not possible to sign or approve the convention on behalf of the union. the court ruled in favour of the commission in october 2013 and the council was forced to adopt a new decision in april 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services.
in writing. ‒ viktor uspaskich is accused of contempt of a magistrate and there is nothing in the case file to suggest that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the mp's political activity. it is therefore important to lift mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity so that the lithuanian judiciary can do its job.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of parliamentary immunity is anything but a simple act and follows a very rigorous procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is not connected in any way with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and therefore falls within article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the same article also provides that immunity may not be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and may not impede the right of the european parliament to waive the immunity of one of its members. this derogation is logical and is usually justified either by the seriousness of the facts alleged or by the possibility of reaching a judicial decision quickly. that is not the case with the adoption of the ferrara report this afternoon. the european parliament is simply following the advice of the committee on legal affairs, which had recommended that the european parliament should lift the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, as requested by the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr uspaskich's immunity, so that the lithuanian judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the facts in question alleged insult to a magistrate occurred before mr uspaskich took up his seat in the european parliament and that they therefore have no direct or obvious link with the exercise of his duties as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of my colleague's immunity, a request shared even by the member in question. it is only natural that he should be able to explain himself to his national authorities.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the campaign expenses of nicolas sarkozy during the 2012 french presidential election, better known as the bygmalion case, the french magistrates would like to place jérôme lavrilleux in police custody for questioning. jérôme lavrilleux was nicolas sarkozy's campaign manager in 2012 and his interrogation appears crucial to determine possible responsibilities within the campaign team. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of parliamentary immunity is anything but a simple act and follows a very rigorous procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is not connected in any way with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and therefore falls within article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the same article also provides that immunity may not be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and may not impede the right of the european parliament to waive the immunity of one of its members. this derogation is logical and is usually justified either by the seriousness of the facts alleged or by the possibility of reaching a judicial decision quickly. that is not what is at issue in the adoption of the hautala report this afternoon. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also called for the european parliament to be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr lavrilleux's immunity, so that the french judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the facts in question a judicial investigation focusing on a false invoicing system linked to the 2012 election campaign of nicolas sarkozy have no connection with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of my colleague's immunity, a request shared even by the member in question. it is only natural that he should be able to explain himself to his national authorities.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of parliamentary immunity follows a very rigorous procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is not connected in any way with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and therefore falls within article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the same article also provides that immunity may not be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and may not impede the right of the european parliament to waive the immunity of one of its members. this derogation is logical and is most often justified by the seriousness of the facts alleged and/or by the possibility of reaching a judicial decision quickly. that is not the case with the adoption of the chrysogonos report this afternoon. the european parliament is therefore urging the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's immunity is not waived. the lifting of immunity will enable the polish judiciary to render a firm decision against this man accustomed to racist and anti-semitic provocations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr janusz korwin-mikke's immunity, so that the polish judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the facts in question alleged breach of the physical integrity of an official have no connection with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that the procedure initiated is not intended to prejudice mr korwin-mikke's political activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of my colleague's immunity, a request shared even by the member in question. it is only natural that he should be able to explain himself to his national authorities.
in writing. ‒ mr zagorakis is accused by the greek courts of financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 when he was president of paok, the football club of thessaloniki. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of parliamentary immunity follows a very rigorous procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is not connected in any way with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and therefore falls within article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the same article also provides that immunity cannot be invoked in the case of a flagrant offence. this derogation is logical and is most often justified by the seriousness of the facts alleged and/or by the possibility of reaching a judicial decision quickly. that is not the case with the adoption of the duda report this afternoon. the plenary simply follows the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, which unanimously recommended that the european parliament should lift the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, as requested by the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr theodoros zagorakis' immunity, so that the greek judiciary can do its job, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, in relation to allegations of financial irregularities committed when mr zagorakis was president of the football club paok; the prosecutions brought have no relation to the exercise of his duties as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of my colleague's immunity, a request shared even by the member in question. it is only natural that he should be able to explain himself to his national authorities.
in writing. ‒ article 137 of the feu treaty provides that the economic and social committee may be consulted on certain matters. a committee may consult the committee on a general problem or on specific points. requests to consult the economic and social committee shall be submitted to parliament for approval without debate.
in writing. ‒ in support of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty', i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'.
in writing. ‒ in support of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union', i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union'.
in writing. ‒ in support of this request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty', i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'.
in writing. ‒ in support of this request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union', i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union'.
in writing. ‒ following the london interbank offered rate (libor), commodities and exchange rate benchmark scandals that resulted in multi-million fine imposed on several banks in europe and the us, the commission published in september 2013 a draft regulation on a wide range of benchmarks, seeking to address possible gaps at every stage of benchmark production and use. the price of many financial instruments and contracts depends on the accuracy of the benchmarks. doubts about the integrity of indices used as benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause losses for consumers and investors and distort the real economy. it was therefore time to regulate this system, in particular by defining the indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. the socialist group, of which i am a member, has succeeded in extending the scope of the performance criteria, including the role of national supervisors in defining the key benchmarks, qualitative and quantitative criteria and the inclusion of all entities, not just those that are supervised.
in writing. – the benchmarks regulation is very important because the manipulation of benchmarks affects us all. the law came about following the scandal over the manipulation of the libor interest rate benchmark, which is frequently used to determine interest rates for mortgages and bank loans. i have voted in favour of the report as it is aimed to prevent the manipulation of financial benchmarks such as the london interbank offered rate (libor) and euribor. the new european legislation is a well-balanced as it lays down rules on how an index must be calculated and how possible conflicts of interest must be avoided. the new draft law will introduce eu-wide rules to improve the reliability, representativeness and fitness for purpose of benchmarks. producers of major indices are placed under the direct supervision of financial supervisors and the law will also provide more information to users of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council to make the benchmarks used to price mortgages, loans and bonds of eu citizens more reliable. it is in response to the scandals concerning the manipulation of some of these financial indices. for example, between 2005 and 2009, large banks operating in the union manipulated the libor and euribor indices, the rates at which banks lend to each other, set daily by... the banks themselves. by manipulating these indices, banks have, among other things, influenced the prices of our financial products to their own advantage. they have thus amassed large sums of money at the expense of european consumers, businesses and investors. the main objective of this regulation is to streamline the process of calculating benchmarks by reducing conflicts of interest in the panel of european banks that determine the value of benchmarks. and it is to avoid further scandals of this kind and to restore public confidence in the financial sector that a new, stricter regulation was voted on this morning.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved by 517 votes to 146, with 27 abstentions, a common position on the proposal for a regulation to strengthen governance in the formation of financial benchmarks, paving the way for interinstitutional negotiations, the council being already ready. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial property'. qualitative criteria have been added to determine which indices can be considered critical. the final decision on whether an index is critical would be taken by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and national authorities. however, a national authority could also consider an index administered on its own territory to be critical if it has a significant impact on the national market. the calculation of critical benchmarks that relate to at least two countries will be monitored by a college of supervisors, including esma and other competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of libor and exchange rate indices, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, have highlighted the importance of the indices as well as their weaknesses. in the wake of these revelations, the european union has revised its market abuse legislation to clarify the illegality of index manipulation and to include this type of behaviour in the criminal law. a large majority of european citizens are affected, directly or indirectly, by the indices. all financial instruments are affected by the use of indices: derivatives, equities and bonds, as well as physical and commodity markets, the latter having seen a considerable increase in the volume of commodity index funds over the last ten years.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report as it is aimed to prevent the manipulation of financial benchmarks. the new european legislation is well-balanced as it lays down rules on how an index must be calculated and how possible conflicts of interest must be avoided. the new draft law will introduce eu-wide rules to improve the reliability, representativeness and fitness for purpose of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ this report prepares the international conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa from 13 to 16 july 2015. the european union is the world's largest contributor to development aid financing. it is essential that the eu continues to devote 0.7% of its gni to development aid, as it is our responsibility to support developing countries. the report goes in that direction and that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ official development assistance (oda) is a key instrument for financing development. in 2005, eu member states committed to spending 0.7% of their gross national income (gni) on oda by 2015. this objective was not achieved. i therefore support the political message which parliament is sending to the commission, the council and the european states through this report. by 2020, member states must meet their target and effectively devote 0.7% of their gni to oda, with 50% of oda and a minimum of 0.2% of gni for the least developed countries. however, domestic resource mobilization is more predictable and more sustainable than foreign aid, which cannot cover all investment needs in developing countries. i therefore support the call for the eu to develop a regulatory framework with developing countries that stimulates transparent and responsible investment and contributes to the development of a vibrant private sector in developing countries.
in writing. this report is timely; it prepares the eu's position for the international conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa in july 2015. i welcome the adoption of this report which encourages the eu and its member states to honour their contribution of 0.7% of gdp. this commitment must be respected without delay. it is also necessary to develop innovative sources and strengthen the capacity of developing countries to overcome aid dependence through the promotion of good governance and the development of effective tax systems. sustainable development will only be possible if it is adequately funded and if it is based on the ability of developing countries to finance themselves access to basic public services such as improved health care. the promotion of good taxation, budgetary support, the development of banking, resilience to epidemics such as ebola and the sharing of health risks, the development of the autonomous capacity of african countries for peacekeeping are all themes that deserve special attention at the addis ababa conference.
in writing. ‒ 0.7% of gross national income, a symbolic figure, a reasonable figure to help the countries of the south to develop and, yet, a figure still unattainable for 24 of the 28 member states. in the face of north/south imbalances, unprecedented regional conflicts and the massive influx of refugees that is the direct consequence, the 28 capitals would have every interest in respecting their commitment signed in 2005. a goal set 45 years ago that has the full support of european citizens, at 85%, according to a eurobarometer published in january 2015. this is another reason for the eu to devote 0.7% of national income to official development assistance, especially as 1.5 billion people still live in extreme poverty. that is the message that the european parliament has sent today by its vote. of course, other sources of funding, including private ones, will also be needed to achieve the new sustainable development goals. however, public and private funding do not have the same roles and impact. and that is the major challenge we have to face: to ensure the best possible synergy between these different sources of funding.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development aid action with the adoption of the sustainable development goals and an agreement on global climate action. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the european union is the world's leading donor of development aid and that this aid represents almost 60% of official development aid worldwide. the report also calls, and i welcome this, for the european union and its member states to reformulate without delay their commitment to allocate 0.7% of gnp to official development assistance, with 50% of development assistance and at least 0.2% of gnp reserved for the least developed countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. it urges the european union to assert its leading political role throughout the preparations for a sustainable development framework, a renewed agreement on financing for development and other implementing arrangements, in accordance with the commitments and values enshrined in its founding treaties. we believe that the conditions for the delivery of eu development aid should not be dictated by other partner donors.
in writing. ‒ a functioning, safe and effective healthcare system is essential. unfortunately, many preventable incidents still occur throughout the eu, especially in the field of patient care. the commission's progress report shows that the member states are on the right track, but in some countries the savings in health care resulting from the economic crisis are being sacrificed. this needs to be avoided and investment, in particular in research on resistance in human and veterinary medicine, needs to be maintained despite the economic stresses. i fully support this report because of the importance of improving patient safety and of containing antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. access to effective healthcare is a basic right in the eu. while there has been clear progress since 2012, the battle is not yet over. the exchange of good practice and efficient solutions between member states will only allow us to make the necessary progress. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the debate on healthcare in europe is about a major issue: improving patient safety and antimicrobial resistance. the figures show that 8 to 12% of patients admitted to hospital in the union (more than 3 million people) suffer adverse events, including care-associated infections (cais). in fact, more than 25 000 people in europe die each year from ibs caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria. this sad record is due in part to cuts in health care, but mainly to a series of aggravating factors, such as the lack of appropriate national programmes, the difficulty of reporting 'adverse events' and collecting data, the lack of warning and monitoring systems, the inappropriate use of medicines, the packaging of antibiotics, etc. so much of this infection could be prevented. while public health is a matter for the member states, the eu has a certain amount of leeway. i voted for this report because i support the call for the governments of the 28 to invest in continuing training, monitoring of medical services, early warning systems and research into new effective products.
in writing. access to effective health care systems is an essential element of our european societies. this efficiency cannot be achieved without increased patient safety. while much progress has been made since 2012 in this area, this path should be continued, including through the exchange of good practices and effective solutions between all member states. that is why i am very much in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ 37 000 people in europe, 3 000 in belgium, these are the worrying figures for the number of deaths each year as a result of hospital-acquired infections or antibiotic resistance. across the eu-28, more than 3 million people are infected in care facilities each year. the most common are urinary tract infections, pneumonia, infections in the area of the body that has been operated on and generalized infections, such as sepsis and bacteremia. the adoption by this afternoon's plenary of the pedicini report on safer health care in europe is important and provides an opportunity to take stock of the spread of microbes, particularly in hospital settings. i would like to draw attention to two key proposals to combat this phenomenon: investing in the search for new antibiotics that are effective, particularly against diseases that are particularly likely to be resistant to antimicrobials, such as k. pneumoniae, e. coli, hiv, staphylococcus aureus or tuberculosis; strengthen intensive hygiene and control programmes, in particular early detection of resistant strains and isolation of patients with severe bacterial infections. it is clear that the issue of hospital-acquired infections must become a public health priority.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, in plenary, we adopted a resolution on safer healthcare by 637 votes to 32, with 10 abstentions. the resolution deplores the negative impact of the economic crisis on national health budgets and calls on the member states to ensure that patient safety is not affected. we also proposed measures to ensure that antibiotics are used more responsibly, such as prescription-only use, microbiological diagnosis before prescription, marketing practices to prevent conflicts of interest between producers and prescribers, better information and increased surveillance. we also called on pharmaceutical companies to invest in new antimicrobials and asked the commission to put in place a legislative framework to encourage the development of new antibiotics. finally, we have advocated limited use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine, which should be limited to therapeutic purposes.
in writing. ‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, in particular antimicrobial resistance, are certainly not unknown topics to those who manage health systems, or to those who have frequented the chambers of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety in recent years. in this context, this own-initiative report is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance is of paramount importance. access to effective healthcare is a basic right in the eu. while there has been clear progress since 2012, the battle is not yet over. the exchange of good practice and efficient solutions between member states will only allow us to make the necessary progress. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ it was important that parliament could take a stand on this issue of the future of smes in europe. i am pleased to see that we have been able to instill concrete measures on green growth in smes. green growth sectors have economic and environmental benefits for smes in the eu and are set to grow significantly in the coming years. the starting idea is that economic growth and environmental sustainability can go hand in hand. smes are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth and job creation. the vast potential of the green economy can only be fully exploited if there is a suitable framework for research, development and innovation.
in writing. as rapporteur for this report, i have looked at where the growth opportunities lie for our european smes active in the green growth sector. at the same time, i thought it was important to also make clear where the bottlenecks are: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by smes. i am glad that, with the support of a large majority in this house, i can put these elements on the agenda.
in writing. making the european economy more sustainable is essential. an effective strategy cannot be achieved without unconditional support for smes, the lungs of our european economy. the action plan proposed in this document aims to promote the greening of european businesses while supporting the development of green entrepreneurship. it will also allow for better exploitation of resources, thus ensuring a certain gain in competitiveness in the long term. at a time when the european economy is in need of a revival, it is more vital than ever that it move without delay towards a more profitable and sustainable model.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, is based on the green action plan for smes launched by the european commission, a genuine initiative to encourage smes to take greater advantage of green growth. among the 183 amendments put to the vote, many focused on support for the green and circular economy and the growth opportunities in these areas. i voted in particular in favour of the provisions which stressed the importance of using resources more efficiently and those which aimed to facilitate the start-up of young and start-up companies by working with research institutes, universities and vocational training centres.
in writing. ‒ green growth sectors have tremendous economic and environmental benefits for smes in the european union and are set to grow significantly in the coming years. the starting idea is that economic growth and environmental sustainability can go hand in hand. smes are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth and job creation. it is important that policy-makers fully grasp the potential of the green economy, while being aware of the challenges faced by smes, in particular with regard to greening their products, production processes, business practices and services. the commission's green sme action plan is a positive initiative, which will encourage smes to further enhance the benefits of green growth.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly supported the report by mr philippe de backer, member of the open house. european smes active in the green growth sector have a variety of growth opportunities but also bottlenecks such as knowledge, lack of investors willing to take risks, etc. it is important that these elements are put on the agenda and that europe can think about how it can respond to the various needs of these smes.
guy verhofstadt (alde). – mr president, i wanted first to hear mr orbán before intervening in this debate. but i have to tell you that what he is coming to do here is simply to continue the provocations that we have heard these last months in hungary and outside hungary. an ‘illiberal state’ was the first provocation. the deal that he made in the middle of the crisis in ukraine, making an energy deal with mr putin, was the second provocation. then the death penalty was the third provocation. you do not have to change your opinion, mr orbán: you said on 1 may on public radio in hungary that in fact what you want is for every member state to decide for itself on the reintroduction of the death penalty, and that this is not a european issue, and you confirm it now! well, it is a european issue. it is not an issue for member states, it is an issue for the whole european union and the whole of european civilisation. (applause) and lastly, you confirmed it again here, again a provocation. you say ‘yes, we are only doing a national consultation on this migration project’. a national consultation? is this a national consultation? you have to literally read the different questions that are put forward. question number 7: ‘would you support the hungarian government in the introduction of more stringent immigration regulations, in contrast to brussels’ lenient policy?’ so it is brussels that is the cause! or another one, number 3 (and this is incredible!): ‘there are some who think that mismanagement of the immigration question by brussels may have something to do with increased terrorism.’ so it is brussels and europe that is responsible for increased terrorism, and you are confirming it here! is that a national consultation? i call these rhetorical questions! the answer is already in the question, it is not necessary to answer the question. finally, think about one thing if you attack migrants. think a little bit about the many hungarian refugees who left their country because of the communists in 1956 and how they were received with open arms by the other peoples of europe. (applause)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr orbán, you say that you like frankness, and that is a good thing, so i will speak frankly to you. mr orbán, you are leading your country into an autocratic drift which is totally incompatible with our european humanistic and democratic values. mr orbán, the arithmetical majority is a necessary condition for democracy, but it is not and will never be a sufficient condition. in reality, you are practicing what is called the tyranny of the majority. you have a majority and you allow yourself the right to do anything, including bullying minorities, bullying voices that are opposed to yours. your comments on the death penalty, your questionnaire which manipulates and suggests complacent answers which are supposed to give legitimacy to your a priori abhorrent views are all manifestations of methods which are totally contrary to the spirit and the letter of our treaties. you are insidiously and demagogically debasing the very concept of an honourable instrument of democracy and the rule of law. you criminalize migrants and the homeless, you encourage racism, xenophobia and intolerance. you glorify a deadly retreat from identity, you make the apology of authoritarian regimes, you reduce the freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary. you're also practicing a dangerous form of intimidation. in fact, mr orbán, you are slowly burning our values for authoritarian purposes. you are blatantly flouting the most sacred principles of the european union and the rule of law. you're taking a beautiful people backwards in history. but the hungarians have already paid the price of totalitarianism. so, mr timmermans, how many more outrages will european humanists have to endure from a head of government who is constantly humiliating our institutions in order to cynically flatter his vanity and a dubious taste for increasingly absolute power?
mr president, i should ask the commission to scrutinise everything mr orbán has said here, because there are some problems with a number of the answers that he has given in this debate. secondly, to go further, in that idea to have democratic governance back, we are not going to repeat these debates here eternally. it is now time to conclude! that means that the commission should come forward with an initiative to the council and the parliament and say we have to deal with these problems in the following way. we cannot continue such debates anymore. on a second point, you did not respond, unfortunately, mr orbán, to the various remarks that were made on the question. for example, you say that it is mr timmermans who is responsible for terrorism – it is in your question no. 3 here. you did not respond to that. well, in the end, what you are saying is an enormous argument, yet there are no liberals in hungary. how dare you intervene in the debate! there are no liberals. no, we lost them, because you were there and so was fidesz. what is fidesz? do you know what fidesz is? it is a student organisation of the liberal party. that is what it means, fidesz. the only reason why you changed camp is because you lost the election and wanted to return to power, and so you became a nationalist. that is your responsibility, and i can tell you one thing: even without liberals in hungary, we shall fight for liberal... (the president cut off the speaker)
author. mr president, the last debate we had in this house on maternity leave was last july. almost a year has passed, and what has happened since then? you might say, "not much". well, at least a little. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the council is deaf to the call; and we in parliament, although we are not obliged to do so - but we have committed ourselves to it - are trying to build bridges to the council, unfortunately without success. so once again i am denouncing here publicly the council's passivity, but also the precedent it sets: two institutions are taking a decision but the council does not dare to give its position, even if it is far from the other two. this is unacceptable. it is of course unacceptable on an interinstitutional level and it is disrespectful to the other two european institutions that we represent here tonight, but it is also unacceptable, above all, for the millions of mothers and children who are thus deprived of social justice. where is the triple a commission announced by mr juncker? we will not achieve this by throwing the maternity leave directive into the dustbin or in the garbage. what kind of europe are we living in - i ask the council - when women who give birth are penalized simply because they become mothers? what kind of europe are we living in if having a child is synonymous with poverty? the resolution we are putting to the vote tomorrow aims to make this europe, through women and also mothers, a true triple a europe in social terms. we can't wait any longer! since 1992, when the first maternity leave directive was adopted, there has been no progress. 1992! what are you talking about? it's 2015 now! we were saying this morning that if europe has to wait 20 years to pass laws, the situation will soon be difficult, especially when it comes to social legislation. what we are saying to parliament, to the council and to the commission is that these women cannot wait any longer. these women must be able to reconcile their private and professional lives. these women don't have to choose between motherhood and career. these women must be able to take care of themselves as women, as workers and as mothers. these women should no longer be victims of the wage or pension gap with men, they should no longer be victims at all, simply because they are mothers, because they "risk" - and this is the word we hear today - one day to be mothers. can you imagine that? in europe today, being a mother is a "risk"! a risk to the employer, to policy and to society. what kind of society are we living in? we cannot stand it any longer and we ask again and again in this resolution that all this should disappear, that these women be protected, that these mothers have maternity leave, that they be able to be paid a decent wage so that they do not sink into poverty, that they be able to reconcile their private and professional lives, that they finally be able to be all that they are, that is to say, women, mothers and workers, and that they occupy their place in our society with dignity. commissioner, i know that you are committed to this issue. i am counting on you to ensure that this debate does not have to wait another ten years, so that we can give these european mothers that opportunity. i am counting on you and on the council, of course. but i must confess that since this has been said, i have grown tired of repeating to the council what we are now asking for. so let us do this with the commission. let us try to find a solution so that these women are respected as soon as possible.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, the maternity leave directive, which protects women at work, has been in existence since 1992. it is a directive on the health of women who are pregnant, breastfeeding and have given birth. the directive, which was proposed by the european commission, is a revision of the 1992 directive. so when you talk about a principle of subsidiarity, i do not understand what you are referring to, since the commission has been empowered to take this measure since 1992.
in writing. i would like to emphasise the importance of facilitating the reconciliation of private and professional life, particularly for pregnant women and young mothers. and let me add the urgency. that is why the announcement by the european commission of the withdrawal of the directive on the extension of maternity leave is regrettable. this protection measure was approved by the european parliament in 2010 and is now being challenged by the executive. this decision is nothing more nor less than a regression. the debate must be revived quickly by giving new impetus to the interinstitutional dialogue. i wish for a renewal of dialogue. it is necessary to update the positions and to bring them closer together so that they can best meet the realities of the various member states. progress is needed in the area of social protection, of which maternity leave is certainly one, and there is no longer room for inaction! i shall pay particular attention to the development of this case. thank you for your attention.
the maternity directive has been blocked in the council since 2010. that is unacceptable given the democratic majority in favour in parliament. it is important that mothers throughout the union are protected during pregnancy. the directive covers more than rest after childbirth, it also covers dismissal protection, anti-discrimination measures and health aspects. it is vindictive that the council is unable to reach an agreement, hiding behind false arguments such as subsidiarity, when the real reason for the delay is the alleged cost. this is another example of a wider pattern in which the council gives economic arguments precedence over worker protection and rights. i call on the council to break this pattern and to work urgently to protect the rights of mothers (in particular). this will contribute to equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market. finally, i would also like to advocate the right to paid paternity leave, or rather, i would like to make it compulsory. this is the best way to avoid putting pressure on fathers to withhold their right to paternity leave and to boost fathers' involvement with their newborn child.
i would like to thank the commissioner for her presence here tonight, including her continued commitment to promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. i am also grateful for the many efforts which the commission has already made in this area, but there is still much work to be done. i would encourage the commission to work towards the full implementation of the un convention. it is obvious that parliament must be involved in this process and must also be consulted more. this is not only the case when formulating the list of issues, but also in relation to reporting, monitoring and implementation. we therefore trust that the commission will invite all eu framework members to formally participate in the constructive dialogue with the crpd committee in geneva in august. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have joined hands across party lines to put the rights of disabled people higher on the agenda. last week we organised a public hearing with the eu human rights agency and the european ombudsman amongst others and the message was very clear. this un convention is a very important document for people with disabilities. it also imposes a legal obligation on the signatories, including the eu. the hearing also showed that there should be cooperation between all the levels involved. a coherent approach is therefore the only way to ensure that persons with disabilities can also fully enjoy the freedom of movement of persons, which is a fundamental right for all eu citizens. the introduction of a european accessibility regulation, for example, could be a major step forward. after all, persons with disabilities in europe still face too many obstacles when they want to use goods or services. a single european market is not yet a reality for them. people with disabilities, like you and me, need to be able to participate in our society, and that is why the implementation of the un convention is so crucial, so important. i am counting on all of you to put the fine words of the report into action.
in writing. parliament addressed the humanly essential issue of integration and the rights of disabled people. among europeans, 80 million are disabled. unfortunately, they too have been hit hard by the crisis and austerity policies. in areas such as employment, accessibility and education, much remains to be done to accelerate their integration. the commission has developed its 2010-2020 strategy for the integration of people with disabilities, based in particular on employment and education. but austerity has significantly mitigated the effects. the european union has in the meantime acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it must apply its principles today. it must strengthen its action in favour of employment, training, social integration or education for disabled people by allocating the necessary budgets. but the commission must also present as soon as possible a legislative proposal to promote their accessibility to goods and services in the union. it is also essential that the european council of ministers lift its block on the transversal anti-discrimination directive. finally, representative associations such as the european disabled persons forum should be consulted throughout this work.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, firstly i have to tell mr weber that he does not understand how this works. he is a man of his word, nigel farage. he has sent a letter to nigel farage saying ‘i resign’. nigel farage has responded to nigel farage saying ‘i refuse your resignation.’ that is the way it works! so, that said, let us come to the topic of today. mr timmermans, i strongly support the commission’s proposal of last week on migration, because i think the commission has assumed your responsibility, and that is not the case with the council. the commission has, in fact, taken a stance that is absolutely necessary because it promotes the interest of all, rather than focusing on single member states, and that is what we have to do to tackle this problem. we cannot continue to say it is only the italians who have to do their job; we cannot say it is the european union which is at the source of this problem. what we need is a european solution to a european problem. i want to condemn very strongly those member states who say officially that they are in solidarity but are already stating, as we have heard, that they will object to the use of the temporary protection procedure. with regard to the temporary protection procedure, i think, commissioner, that article 78(3) of the treaty was especially created for that purpose. so let us use it now: it is only right that the commission should exploit it. what i do not understand is those – like the prime minister of france, mr valls, last sunday i think – who say ‘i am against quotas but i am for solidarity in this field.’ i do not understand this. it is either one thing or the other. secondly, i agree with the commission that the right approach is to start first with temporary protection and only then, at a later stage, to work on a permanent procedure to replace the dublin rules. however, i think it shall be necessary to replace dublin, and to do so not by recommendations, commissioner, but through real legislation. let us also be clear in this debate that we cannot go down the road of what we are currently hearing: anti-european, xenophobic talk in which people are mixing everything up – asylum seekers, refugees, economic migrants. it is simply not acceptable to do as some people are doing and equate migrants with terrorists. so, colleagues, we have a responsibility as the european union because – and let us be honest among ourselves – if we have such flows coming to europe it is in part because of european union inaction in our neighbourhood. we did nothing, after all, in libya, and we did nothing in syria, and that is one of the reasons why so many refugees are now seeking to enter the union. we have to learn from that, which means we need to assume our responsibilities in our neighbourhood. our group supports the commission proposals as a first step. action is needed, commissioner – joint action, common action, and that means european action. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – mr president, it is a little difficult for me to speak on behalf of the whole parliament. i would have to sit in your seat to do that!
i've been going over the immigration agenda in detail, and it's a great starting point for discussion. however, i cannot help repeating that the existing european framework on asylum, including the dublin rules and fingerprinting, is a good basis. this must first be done fully and correctly. the dublin system is not working properly. moreover, economic migrants, i.e. people who are not entitled to asylum, are not returned. the commission will therefore have to approach the evaluation of the dublin system very carefully and also thoroughly examine why it is not working. otherwise, we risk drawing the wrong conclusions, with the result that the entire asylum system will falter even more. only then can we possibly talk about relocation, resettlement and legal migration routes. first things first.
mr president, i would like to welcome the plan proposed by the commission because i think it is both structured, voluntary and courageous, and i say to the commission that overall it has done a good job and we will support it. we will support it in dealing with the humanitarian emergency in the mediterranean, in waging a ruthless fight against the traffickers' networks, in organising a genuine strengthening of solidarity between the member states in the field of reception and in stepping up the coordination of the action of the specialised agencies frontex, europol and the european asylum support office, whose role and resources must be considerably increased in the future. of course, much remains to be done, and i regret the almost non-existent progress towards a common structural management of external borders, the too timid progress towards creating legal pathways for immigration on european territory and the inconsistencies in asylum policy, which does not give equal opportunities for the reception of genuine refugees depending on the countries they enter. if the commission tackles these problems, it will have our full support.
in writing. we welcome the action plan put forward by the european commission to effectively address the influx of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants. mandatory quotas for the member states it's clearly not evident in some capitals, but it's much needed. just going on as we are is not an option. five member states are responsible for three quarters of asylum applications. we all know this has to change. we are counting on the commission to come forward next week with a good and feasible proposal which can be adopted quickly, also in the council. but today all our attention must be directed first and foremost to the rescue of the boat people, to a vigorous and effective action against the smugglers of people and at the same time to a much closer cooperation to guard our external borders. it's a one-on-one strategy. it's called a one-on-one. this is the only way to ensure that this action plan is widely supported by the population.
in writing. ‒ this was a procedural vote to determine the next part of the plenary.
in writing. ‒ meps voted yesterday on the dates of the next european parliament plenary sessions for 2016 in strasbourg and brussels. i would point out here that i am still in favour of a single seat for the european parliament in brussels for the reasons we know. so, on that, let's get to work!
in writing. ‒ i take this explanation of vote to protest that this potential calendar was not yet online at the time of the votes, which shows a lack of transparency on something that did not deserve secrecy or at least no mention on the ep website.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with south africa for the conclusion of an additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. this negotiation process was concluded on 19 may 2014. the additional protocol is intended only to make the few technical and linguistic amendments to the trade, development and cooperation agreement which are necessary as a result of the accession of croatia to the union.
in writing. ‒ on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the european union and became its 28th member state. the proposal for a council decision submitted to the vote today concerns the approval, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the cde agreement between the union and south africa to take account of the accession of croatia to the union (on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the republic of south africa for the conclusion of the additional protocol). these negotiations were concluded on 19 may 2014. the additional protocol was approved by the council on 9 october 2014 and by south africa at the end of december 2014. the vote in the european parliament followed logically.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i welcome the new development provisions incorporated into the 2009 kleinmond cdc agreement, in particular on poverty reduction, aid effectiveness, the mdgs and the links between migration and development.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the new rules for better traceability of money transfers and a more effective fight against money laundering. this directive gives the competent authorities new tools to combat illegal activities tax evasion, corruption and the financing of terrorism more effectively. the transparency registers with the beneficial owners of companies, trusts or similar legal entities, which parliament has called for for this purpose, are a step forward in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to protect the financial system against money laundering and terrorist financing through the adoption of prevention, investigation and detection measures. money laundering and terrorist financing pose a significant risk to the integrity, orderly functioning and stability of the financial system. the changing nature of money laundering and terrorist financing requires continuous adaptation of eu legislation on the subject. at the present time and in the wake of the various scandals, i think it is essential to combat these forms of fraud.
in writing. ‒ with the end of the football season approaching, many will probably be tempted to take a gamble and bet on who will be the next champion. unfortunately, we have known for some time that sports betting is also easy prey for mobsters who want to abuse sports to launder money. that is why it is important that we have today extended the legislation on money laundering to include gambling operators. as soon as transactions of eur 2000 or more are reported, a 'customer survey' will have to be carried out. the exception for member states to exclude low-risk bets will have to be closely monitored by the commission. this should not be used as an excuse for member states to take a lax attitude towards gambling operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new directive to step up the fight against tax evasion, money laundering and terrorist financing. i also supported the new money transfer regulation which aims to improve the traceability of payers and recipients and their assets. financial crime is a cross-border phenomenon. to combat this, the eu needs to have harmonised rules. i am therefore glad that members have wanted to go further than the commission's proposal. the requirement for member states to maintain central registers containing information on the beneficial owners of companies and trusts is a major step towards greater transparency. these new rules are an important step in the fight against money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. they ensure consistency with the approach taken at international level. it is now time for member states to implement these new rules swiftly.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has completed a new strategic legislation to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. the tools introduced by this directive, in particular the register of beneficial owners, will strengthen the capacity of national authorities to detect and identify billions of euros of criminal activity. the new rules are more flexible, focusing on high-risk activities and providing for simplified measures for low-risk activities. this new legislation will make the european market work better, while strengthening the stability of our economies. we will also be better equipped to detect the financial flows that support terrorist groups and thus better able to combat this scourge. it is therefore crucial that these rules are operational as soon as possible. by adopting this text, we have not only brought our rules into line with the most recent international recommendations on this matter, including those of the financial action task force, but we are also setting an example for the rest of the world. in order to make our efforts more effective, we will need to strengthen our cooperation with third countries which are moving in the same direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for stricter rules on money laundering to combat tax evasion and the financing of terrorism. from now on, company owners will have to be registered in the central registers of eu countries, which are open to both the authorities and to persons with a 'legitimate interest', such as journalists. i also welcome the adoption of new rules to facilitate the tracing of transfers of funds.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this vote, which marks a major step forward in the fight against money laundering, corruption and tax evasion. the european parliament agreed to a register of ultimate stakeholders so that public authorities, citizens and organisations can see which natural person is behind a jumble of corporate structures. transparency is the biggest enemy of money launderers and tax evaders. thanks to this legislation, anyone with a valid application will soon be able to see the shadowy structures behind companies. criminals try to launder money they have earned through corruption, fraud and drug trafficking, among other things, through a network of companies with opaque structures. they use it to try to fool the government and the citizens. every year, two to five percent of our economy is laundered worldwide. you figure out what that's gonna cost the taxpayer. the register of ultimate stakeholders also clarifies the structures through which multinationals evade tax. tax evasion is legally legal, but morally unacceptable. with this register in hand, researchers can pinpoint which multinationals are not interested. the european union countries now have two years to transpose the directive into national law and to establish a register of final stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the beneficial owners of companies will have to be registered in the central registers of eu countries, open to both authorities and persons with a 'legitimate interest', such as investigative journalists, under the new rules agreed with the council and adopted by the plenary on wednesday. the new directive aims to step up the fight against tax fraud and the financing of terrorism. that's a good thing!
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to revise the regulation on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds in order to increase the traceability of payments and to ensure that the eu framework remains in line with international standards. the regulation on transfers lays down rules requiring payment service providers to transmit information on the payer throughout the payment chain for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating money laundering and terrorist financing. the aim of the proposal is to increase transparency by including the following changes: information on the principal; to bring credit cards, debit cards and telephones within the scope of the regulation if they are used for money transfers; obligation to establish a risk-based procedure to determine when a payment is to be blocked, suspended, executed, etc.; align with the fatf traceability rules; to strengthen the sanctioning power of the competent authorities; make the publication of penalties compulsory.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this new regulation is part of the european parliament's efforts to establish a legislative framework that provides the necessary tools for the prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. more specifically, the rules adopted today improve the traceability of money transfers, in line with the recent revision of international standards on the subject. we have today chosen greater transparency in a financial system which is becoming increasingly complex and therefore more prone to fraud. action to increase transparency is therefore in the interest of citizens by combating money laundering. this is a huge sum of money every year and internationally, between 2% and 5% of gdp , money that does not benefit our economies. and the toll is even higher because the terrorism financed by these laundered funds affects the lives of millions of people around the world. this new regulation is important because it increases transparency while ensuring that the storage and exchange of information complies with the criteria of personal data protection and privacy.
in writing. ‒ noting that the act was adopted in accordance with the council's position, we instructed the president of parliament, by voting on this report, to sign the act with the president of the council, in accordance with article 297 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing the regulation.
in writing. ‒ as insolvency proceedings are increasingly also cross-border in nature, the commission proposed in 2012 a reform of the insolvency regulation. this was adopted in first reading by the outgoing parliament in february 2014. the council of ministers subsequently adopted its position in march 2015 and it has now been submitted to parliament. i welcome the resolution in this respect, since it obliges, among other things, courts and insolvency administrators from different member states to work together more closely in order to better coordinate crossborder insolvencies.
in writing. ‒ one of the aims of the proposed regulation is to give a 'second chance' to companies that are experiencing financial difficulties due to crossborder insolvency proceedings. in the context of the economic crisis, it seems to me essential to stimulate enterprises in order to stimulate employment and growth.
in writing. ‒ noting that the act was adopted in accordance with the council's position, we instructed the president of parliament, by voting on this report, to sign the act with the president of the council, in accordance with article 297 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this is an administrative measure orchestrated by mp simon. so of course i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission proposal which gives eu importers the opportunity to further deepen their ongoing efforts to ensure clean supply chains when trading legally with operators in conflict areas through self-certification, ultimately helping to curb the financing of armed groups and security forces through proceeds from mineral trade in conflict areas. however, i also believe that this should go a step further and have therefore supported amendments which would at least oblige upstream companies to apply the oecd guidelines and to publish information on their duty of care in relation to responsible sourcing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it provides for the eu to certify european importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which will ensure that they do not fuel conflicts and human rights violations in conflict zones. we also ask the commission to provide micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) with financial assistance for certification through the commission's cosme programme (the eu programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes). it is essential to guarantee all citizens decent work rights!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a stricter approach to conflict minerals is needed. the minerals that end up in our domestic appliances must not be used to finance conflicts, with immense human suffering as a result. i am glad that we have been able to do this in a way that is effective and also feasible for our - often smaller - companies, without losing ourselves in a tangle of rules and administration.
in writing. - i am particularly pleased with the european parliament's ambitious vote in favour of a requirement to trace the supply and processing chain for minerals and metals, the exploitation of which is a major issue in conflict zones. all european companies involved in the import, processing and marketing of these ores and metals, including those upstream, will be required to be transparent and provide information on the measures they take to identify and address risks in their supply chains. those downstream will have to report their source of supply. this decisive step forward was made possible by the amendments tabled by louis michel, myself and a few other members. i hope this vote will put an end to the exploitation of blood ore to finance wars and rebellions. i now expect the council to take up its responsibilities during the trilogue which will begin in the coming days.
in writing. ‒ meps voted this afternoon in favour of an ambitious regulation to end the financing of armed conflict through the exploitation of a series of minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold), commonly used in european industry. for decades, eastern congo has been ravaged by violence due to the proliferation of armed groups that feed off the income generated by illegal mining, often at the expense of local populations. the aim of this regulation is to break the link between the financing of these groups and the exploitation of mines in conflict zones, specifically in africa where 30% of the world's mineral resources are concentrated, where mining production accounts for an average of 24% of gdp and where 27 conflicts are known to be linked to these resources. the text adopted by the european parliament this afternoon is realistic and humanistic and provides an excellent basis for further negotiations. it provides, through the adoption of the two amendments tabled by louis michel, which i co-signed, for a mechanism of transparency for all the actors in the chain. it is still necessary to convince the council to take up its responsibilities in the face of this traffic in death.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an ambitious regulation on conflict minerals because i believe that it is necessary to oblige companies to ensure that the minerals they buy are not used to finance deadly conflicts in central africa. i am calling for this traceability to be made compulsory and transparent so that the exploitation and trade of these minerals which end up in our mobile phones, tablets, fridges and televisions no longer lead, as is the case at present, to serious human rights violations. it is essential that belgium should make the same voice heard in the council of the european union, where the discussions will continue.
in writing. ‒ today we voted in favour of an ambitious package of measures to combat the trade in conflict minerals. all european companies must report on the origin of the minerals they use this is a victory of human rights over economic interests! european consumers are unwittingly financing death and destruction. voluntary rules on conflict minerals have been in place for years and have not brought any relief. human suffering is a global political responsibility. we are making binding legislation so that the entire european consumer market imports only conflict-free products, so that rebels in areas like eastern congo no longer finance their weapons through the clandestine mineral trade. in the united states, binding legislation on conflict minerals was introduced as early as 2012. when the two largest consumer markets in the world come together to end the trade in conflict minerals, we also clean up the asian market. for example, if the manufacturers of smartphones in china want to supply us, they must also check that their minerals are honestly extracted. the european parliament will now negotiate the final legislation with the member states. i call on the belgian minister of finance to subordinate the interests of business to the many human rights violations that conflict minerals bring and to ensure that belgium gets a truly humane face.
in writing. - i'm pleased with the result. the regulation adopted today is a historic victory that puts respect for human rights above corporate profit. europe, with our strong position in parliament, has a chance to become a pioneer in economic ethics. the council must now take parliament's signal into account and work towards binding regulation to ensure the traceability of the products we consume in europe.
in writing. ‒ the conflict minerals dossier was high on the agenda this week. i have seen with my own eyes the conditions under which children and women have had to mine these minerals in conflict zones. many died in the process. i am pleased that, together with louis michel, i have been given the obligation to provide a minimum of information on origin at every stage of mining and production. in the long term, this will prevent criminal and terrorist organisations from enriching themselves by exploiting the weakest in the extraction of these minerals and from selling them on the european market.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejects the commission's proposal for a delegated act because it considers that the exemption granted for the use of cadmium in screen lighting is based on an outdated situation as cadmium can already be replaced by quantum boxes. in view of the danger of cadmium to human health and the damage it causes to the environment and in the light of technological developments, the use of cadmium for screen lighting should be banned as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ since 1993, cadmium has been classified by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) as a human carcinogen, i.e. as dangerous. this heavy metal is found in products as varied as batteries, solders, paint pigments, fertilizers, and pesticides, as well as in general lighting and screen lighting applications. the commission is also proposing to extend the derogation for this substance provided for in the rohs (restriction of hazardous substances) directive. i agree with the objections raised by the european parliament for at least two reasons: the first is linked to the very principle of this legislation, which has banned the use of dangerous substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbde) since july 2006. the second reason concerns the exemption for cadmium on lighting applications, such as led lamps, which normally expired on 1 july 2014. there is therefore no justification for extending the derogation as the european commission wants, which must not compromise the health of european consumers.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, by a very large majority (618 votes in favour, 33 against and 28 abstentions), the european parliament vetoed the commission's proposal to authorise, by way of derogation and by delegated act, the prolonged use of cadmium in lighting applications for television screens using quantum dot technology. the carcinogenic heavy metal cadmium is one of the substances restricted for use in the european union under the directive on the restriction of the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (directive 2011/65/eu). although the commission has invoked the need to adapt this legislation to technical progress and has argued that cadmium-free quantum dots were not yet technically available to justify its proposal to exempt cadmium from the provisions of the directive until july 2017, its argument has not convinced us. other solutions exist and a range of tvs using cadmium-free quantum dot technology are widely available on the european market. in other words, the draft legislation was not justified.
in writing. ‒ following a ban on f-gases, the european parliament is now taking the fight against cadmium to the next level. cadmium is harmful to health, while there are equivalent alternatives available. the european parliament therefore objects to a commission proposal to allow the use of cadmium in televisions and lamps. naturally occurring cadmium is present in very low concentrations in the earth's crust. as a result, our bodies cannot cope well with prolonged, heightened exposure. that leads to adverse effects, from high blood pressure to bone formation disorders. the commission therefore prohibited the use of cadmium, with one exception: television sets. by placing so-called cadmium quantum dots in tvs, they become more energy efficient. the commission considers that this advantage outweighs the adverse health effects of its use. the commission intends to extend this derogation. this is despite the fact that cadmium-free quantum dots are available on the market. the commission also succumbed to an intensive lobbying by lamp manufacturers, which is extending the use of cadmium to lamps. the commission has also carried out a study to evaluate this extension. it is therefore a good thing that the european parliament as a whole is now opposing it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission delegated directive amending, for the purpose of adapting it to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and screen lighting applications. this is a readjustment text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament opposes the commission's regulation because it considers that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin helps to ensure transparency and the dissemination of information on market developments. this information on the situation of the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is extremely useful in international negotiations and in anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin which it introduces will ensure transparency and the dissemination of information on the evolution of the market, which remains unstable and subject to strong competition, in particular due to imports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ this is a minor legislative readjustment, so i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation (eu) amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a certificate for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 laying down specific measures for the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin.
in writing. ‒ maternity leave is currently regulated at eu level by a 1992 directive which requires a minimum duration of 14 weeks. following a commission proposal in 2010, the european parliament decided at first reading to extend the current legislation from 14 to 20 weeks. the council of ministers has not been able to reach an agreement on this for four years, and the commission has announced that it is withdrawing its proposal. in this context, i welcome the resolution adopted today by parliament, which urges the council to resume negotiations and calls on the commission to help bring parliament's and the council's positions closer together. i also support the proposal to draw up a separate directive providing for paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days, as is already the case in belgium.
in writing. ‒ we called for the negotiations on the maternity leave directive to be relaunched. this text has been blocked for four years in the council! we call for the extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks with full pay and for the introduction of two weeks of paternity leave with full pay. it is essential that women are guaranteed this right and that fathers can be involved in this process without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ angered by five years of deadlock, the european parliament has demanded that the commission take the maternity leave directive out of the fridge! the text was voted in 2010 but the council is still divided on the issue. this is not a big surprise, it must be admitted: parliament's desire to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks with 100% pay made any compromise impossible. far from attempting to clear the mines or to facilitate a reconciliation, the commission proposed to proceed with vertical classification, nothing more and nothing less. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i supported this request, of course, but i still felt that parliament was shooting itself in the foot by trying to load the boat. the oecd and middle-class experts agree that setting the bar too high risks creating real discrimination in recruitment. beyond the length of leave and the level of compensation, what is most important is to have a system which, by virtue of its virtue, does not ultimately penalise women themselves. sometimes the best is the enemy of the good.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this motion for a resolution which denounces the current impasse in the council over the maternity leave directive and urges the member states to resume negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the contrary, i believe that council directive 92/85/eec should be revised to ensure that there are adequate minimum standards at eu level for maternity rights and thus to improve the safety and health of pregnant, child-bearing and breastfeeding workers at work.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the ep decided today to call on the commission not to withdraw the revision of the proposal on maternity leave. it concerns the safety and health of pregnant women at work. the old maternity directive dates from 1992 and no longer reflects the current social reality. parliament already took a clear position on this in 2010. the possible withdrawal of this crucial reform would be a blow to the faces of mothers and fathers whose health and well-being would be enhanced by the proposals. the european rules would be raised to the level of the recommendations of the international labour organisation. the ep voted in favour of increasing the guaranteed maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks, with full pay, and for a mandatory right to paternity leave for fathers. if vice-president timmermans wants to put an end to the safety and health standards for pregnant women at work by means of 'better legislation', he will have to pass first through our green group. i will fight back with my teeth and my hands. if the commission were to withdraw the directive, i would consider the possibility of challenging this decision before the european court of justice.
in writing. - i am a strong advocate of women's rights. we urge the commission not to withdraw a draft european directive on maternity leave, even though it has been blocked for four years in the council of ministers in a resolution voted on wednesday. ministers were also urged to resume negotiations and agree on a formal position.
in writing. ‒ the n-va is a party that attaches great importance to the well-being of the family. the resolution calls for a mandatory extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks. the nva delegation abstained from voting because the subsidiarity principle must be safeguarded. the determination of the duration of maternity leave should be addressed at member state level. the nva delegation also points to the very specific and rather complex belgian context, given the existence of different schemes such as time credits and thematic engagement (e.g. parental leave). these systems are integrated into a system of careers accounting, which is a flexible and tailor-made form of career policy and ensures an effective and workable combination between work and care. the recitals also draw attention to the position of women on the labour market and their low participation rate. the nva delegation warns that a mandatory unilateral extension of maternity leave could further weaken this position.
in writing. ‒ four years ago, the eu and 25 of its member states ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however, there is still much to be done. the rights of people with disabilities must be taken into account at all levels in the eu: from the drafting of legislation, through implementation and, last but not least, monitoring. in particular, access to the labour market and education, transport and accessibility, and social security must be improved. i welcome the motion for a resolution and i am particularly looking forward to cooperation with the european agency for fundamental rights and the european disabled persons forum.
in writing. ‒ the european disability strategy 2010-2020 is primarily aimed at enabling people with disabilities to enjoy their rights on an equal basis with other citizens and at removing the obstacles they face in their daily lives. it also aims to contribute to the practical application of the provisions of the convention, both at eu and national level. this strategy supports and complements the measures taken by the member states in the field of disability, a competence which belongs to them in the first place.
in writing. more than 75 million europeans are disabled and cannot fully exercise their rights in our society. this is absolutely unacceptable to me and i hope that in the long run the european commission will take up its responsibility to meet the many demands of this population in europe. i voted in favour of this report because i find the discrimination suffered by many of them unacceptable.
in writing. as a strong advocate of fundamental rights, i consider it essential to ensure that the 80 million european citizens with disabilities enjoy their rights to the full. the fact is that people with disabilities are still too often discriminated against on a daily basis, and that discrimination must be fought with the utmost determination. full answers to questions asked by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities must be provided. more generally, i think it is appropriate that the commission should present as soon as possible an ambitious piece of legislation designed to significantly improve the autonomy and integration of disabled people in our societies.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, parliament called on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a legislative act to promote the autonomy and full integration of people with disabilities. it also asked the commission to unblock its 2008 proposal for an 'anti-discrimination' directive. in the eu, 80 million people are disabled, or more than 15% of the population. one in four europeans has a disabled person in his or her family. six out of ten europeans know a disabled person in their immediate environment or in their relations. the european union has formally ratified the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been signed by all 28 member states and ratified by 25 of them. but we have to go further. disabled people are constantly discriminated against and face daily obstacles. their social life is limited, particularly in terms of employment, transport, education and training. in its vote this afternoon, parliament reaffirmed its commitment to ending the obstacles to the exercise of rights by disabled people, so that they can lead independent lives and participate in the society in which they live.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the member states which have not yet done so to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as soon as possible. the text also calls on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a union legislative act on accessibility and to fully involve people with disabilities throughout the legislative process. the resolution stresses that the proposal must include a wide range of areas of action concerning the accessibility of goods and services for all citizens of the union, promote the autonomy and full integration of disabled people and establish a permanent, effective and independent mechanism for monitoring implementation. let's keep it that way!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we urge the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a union legislative act on accessibility and to fully involve persons with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle, and stress that this proposal must include a wide range of areas of action concerning the accessibility of goods and services for all citizens of the union, promote the autonomy and full integration of persons with disabilities, and establish a permanent, effective and independent monitoring and implementation mechanism.
in writing. ‒ more than 75 million europeans are disabled and cannot fully exercise their rights in our society. this is absolutely unacceptable to me and i hope that in the long run the european commission will take up its responsibility to meet the many demands of this population in europe. i voted in favour of this report because i find the discrimination suffered by many of them unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the bacterium xyllella fastidiosa is currently decimating olive trees in southern italy. it is estimated that 10% of the trees in the lecce area , or several thousand hectares , are already infected. it is therefore urgent that the european commission take all necessary measures to prevent the spread of the bacterium to other regions of italy and to other member states. finally, the commission must also take measures to provide financial support to farmers affected by the outbreak.
in writing. the pathogen xylella fastidiosa, also known as olive tree plague, has taken on serious proportions. this plant disease causes a very heavy economic loss to the entire production chain of the olive industry in italy. since the first detection of this pathogen in italy in 2013, more than 1 million trees have already been affected. it is feared that this bacterial infection, carried by insects, is now threatening more than 11 million olive trees and that if it spreads, it could infect several southern crops. for the time being, xylella fastidiosa cannot be controlled on its own and efforts should focus on preventing further spread within the eu. to this end, it is recommended that drastic phytosanitary measures be taken. for example, specific controls on the import of plants which may be carriers of that disease should be streamlined and increased, and it is recommended that only plants from production zones free of the bacteria be transported. it is also necessary to monitor carefully the use of pesticides in the fight against crickets, the main vector. in any case, the commission should intensify scientific research into efficient and sustainable pesticides and the commission and the member states should choose the best approach for a rapid economic and landscape recovery of the affected regions.
‒ xylella fastidiosa, a barbaric name for a bacterium recently discovered in southern italy, in the province of lecce to be more precise, and which has already caused considerable damage to olive groves in this region. the european parliament has taken this threat very seriously by adopting this afternoon a resolution on this pathogen which is causing concern to the authorities and the agricultural world. the latter follows the decision taken on 28 april by experts from the 28 countries of the european union to strengthen prevention measures and in particular to ban the import of coffee plants from honduras and costa rica, since three coffee plants were tested for xylella contamination on 15 april. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. efsa has already expressed in a communication the importance of targeting the import of host plants in order to avoid 2015 being the year of the spread of this bacterium in europe.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for additional measures to prevent the spread of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium that is infecting olive trees in puglia, italy. it should be noted that xylella fastidiosa poses an immediate and very dangerous threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, in particular olive trees, almond trees and peaches, as well as vines and citrus fruits. the bacterium could also cause unprecedented losses and severe economic, environmental and social consequences. parliament therefore called on the commission to take targeted measures to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa in the union. it was asked to compensate producers for the eradication measures and loss of income and to use all possible funds and instruments to contribute to the economic recovery of the affected areas. parliament also called for greater resources to be made available to ensure the detection of harmful organisms at points of entry into the union. finally, parliament called for the creation of a public database to enable the exchange of information and the development of detailed guidelines for the application of disease prevention and control measures.
in writing. ‒ the eu must take strong, targeted and effective measures to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa bacteria beyond italy, where it is seriously damaging olive trees, according to a resolution adopted by parliament on wednesday. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european union is fast becoming a ritual in assessing the progress in relations with turkey. for every step forward, the country takes two steps back. we need a magnifying glass this year to see structural progress. after ten years of accession negotiations, turkey still has major difficulties with fundamental freedoms such as freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. the commission strongly condemns the way in which ankara covered up a major corruption scandal. we must not turn a blind eye to this. year after year, the republic's leadership is taking on more authoritarian traits, a trend that coincides with the rise of erdoğan, first as prime minister and since last year also as president. i am very concerned about the outcome of the parliamentary elections in june. with even more power for erdoğan, turkey could slide into an authoritarian state for good. two points of concern about this report. one: where does the eu want to go with a country that is increasingly moving away from european standards and values? and two: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i have just returned from a mission to addis ababa where i had a discussion with the prime minister on the context of the forthcoming elections, the situation in the country and also the regional situation. the image and opinion i have of hailemariam desalegn is that of a prime minister above the fray. the great interest is that it is not only untouched by ethnic but also religious strife. he's a muslim, meles zenawi was a christian, and yet they got along very well. in the context of this country, it is obviously an undeniable quality. with 5,328 kilometres of border, ethiopia has to deal with the fragility of its neighbours. this is all the more dangerous as ethiopia is, without a doubt, in the crosshairs of the islamist movement linked to al qaeda. in january 2014, it agreed to integrate its troops into the african union intervention force in somalia. i firmly believe that it is essential for the european union to conduct an intensive political dialogue with this key country in the region. i remind you that the country has 90 million inhabitants. it's not nothing. it's a giant in the horn of africa and it obviously plays an important role in stability. the united states, moreover, has long understood the importance of supporting this country. i think we need to help ethiopia in its leadership role in the fight against terrorism in the horn of africa. the country was pulled up, though some might think so, by the visionary dimension of the late prime minister meles zenawi. his successor seems to be part of this continuity by emphasizing modernity, youth and empowerment. but it is true that there is a black spot, and that is obviously the work that remains to be done on the human rights aspect. we must help them in this respect by intensifying the political character of a preferential dialogue with the authorities of that country.
the draft text for the riga summit on the future of the eastern neighbourhood, as adopted by the member states, is disappointing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no real ambition, no clear strategy, when they are just as much needed. the pressure that russia has exerted in recent years on the three associated partner countries, georgia, moldova and ukraine, is enormous. this presents us with new geopolitical challenges. i do not read any condemnation of the build-up of russian troops on our eastern european borders or of their presence in ukraine. - no, it's the opposite. russia is invited to determine the terms of the free trade agreement with ukraine. last week i was with some of my colleagues here in kiev and in eastern ukraine. we have seen the disastrous consequences of the russian-backed aggression. very direct for the many families who were under fire: this is a shrapnel, a shell fragment from a russian grad projectile that destroyed a family's home in mariupol. the consequences for the whole country. i want to warn you. the conflict is draining the country not only financially, but psychologically. the population is getting tired and disillusioned. reforms require sacrifices from the people. they must be made to feel that their efforts will be rewarded. there is a danger of defeatism. we can't lose these people. they expect a clear and positive signal from riga. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. that is why i ask the union to be consistent and to show courage. the european union is not a party to the treaty. give ukraine and georgia a clear deadline for visa liberalization!
the european commission has already announced that it will be launching a new round of negotiations with the united states and japan on the basis of the negotiations with the european union. that is a good thing, but let us not fool each other, ladies and gentlemen. our economic engine had shut down. we were able to get it back up and running. but how? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. yes, the ecb's policy is pushing us from the red to the green figures, but those advantages do not outweigh the disadvantages. the interest on our savings books is plummeting. our pensions are becoming more and more uncertain and we are blowing bubbles in our economy. but anyway, the economic engine is turning again. how can we make sure that we are making progress now and that we are continuing to make progress? that can only be done if we choose a genuine policy of recovery, because short-term windfalls can never be the foundation of a strong economy. so we need to reform, we need to increase productivity and get more people to work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. what i see above all is that europe has found a golden solution, and that is: we'll throw some money at it. the european central bank shall: we'll throw some money at it. the juncker plan: we're throwing some extra money into the economy. it does work. we see that now with the policy of quantitative easing and we see that in this report. but that doesn't have a lasting effect. as i said, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, short-term, real recovery will only come when we also make real reforms. so mr juncker's plan will undoubtedly have an impact, but it will only be able to take root in a truly sustainable way if the member states also carry out the necessary reforms.
many of you are now celebrating a few figures and are already talking about the economy turning upside down. frédéric bastiat was talking about that which is seen and that which is not seen in economics. so a lot of things can go unreported. i'll name a few: the small effects on consumption behaviour and employment are the result of lower oil prices, not the merit of the eurozone itself. the juncker fund will compete with private projects through public investment. the euphoria does not take into account bubbles on the stock exchanges due to the massive money creation of your own ecb and the risks to the profitability of the pension funds. in short, italy's public debt now stands at 146 percent and greece's is 180 percent higher. at the present rate of 0.4%, we are therefore still in the process of transforming ourselves from a debt economy into a value-added economy for the whole of this currency area. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that optimism is totally misplaced and, in some ways, immoral.
as a european parliament we must ensure that the money of the european taxpayer is spent where it can have the most added value. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on 25 february the commission presented its proposal for a european energy union. the proposal is aimed, among other things, at improving links between member states, and we are therefore encouraging this. the free flow of energy should ensure that we get more competitive wholesale prices on the european energy market, which will benefit consumers and businesses. but in order for that system to function properly, we also need control systems. i regret to say that the european commission is failing to provide acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, with the necessary resources to carry out this task. as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy on the 2016 budget, i therefore call for the transfer of funds to ensure that the agency has the necessary means to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is a fundamental right. it implies the right not to be disturbed by one's opinions and to be able to express oneself freely and without fear. unfortunately, this principle is not universally applied, and journalist and human rights defender itai dzamara seems to have paid the price. he has been kidnapped since 9 march, as has been pointed out, and does not appear to be the focus of the zimbabwean authorities' concern. despite his wife's requests to the harare high court, no information about mr dzamara's disappearance is available. no credible investigation appears to be under way, while the high court, which ordered the zimbabwean police and state security agents to start searches, has requested to be updated on the progress of the searches every two weeks. i would of course like to join with all of us in this joint resolution to support the family of itai dzamara in their long wait, and i sincerely hope that he can be found very soon and that he can finally live in freedom and without fear.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, if europe is currently facing a migrant crisis, as has been mentioned, with a constant influx from the shores of the mediterranean, we must also turn to south-east asia, which is in a similar situation. as vice-chairman of the interparliamentary delegation with the asean countries, it is my duty to point the finger at the plight of the rohingya. the minority, which is considered the most persecuted in the world and lives mainly in burma, is stateless. burma refuses to grant him citizenship. thousands of rohingya have fled to thailand and malaysia because of the misery and persecution they face in myanmar. unscrupulous smugglers are quick to abandon them at sea after promising them a future that is ultimately no better. when they arrive in their new country of refuge, they often end up in camps, where they are regularly beaten or worse. the discovery of mass graves in thailand shows us the urgency of the situation. it is high time that the countries of southeast asia unite to stop these migratory movements that are leading so many people to death rather than to a better future. the rohingya must be recognized as an ethnic group in its own right and must be able to enjoy the same rights as the rest of the burmese population. finally, the recent decision by malaysia and indonesia to stop the refoulement of boats and to agree to provide assistance to the 7,000 permanent migrants still at sea should be welcomed. i hope that other countries will follow in the footsteps of these two countries and can follow their example in order to establish solidarity in this part of the world.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, those who have seen the reports on the abuses suffered by the rohingya in burma: people being burned alive, beheadings, rapes, all kinds of abuses; those who know that the burmese authorities not only do nothing to protect them but persecute them by depriving them of their citizenship; those who have seen this and who are aware also know that the first responsible for the plight of the rohingya is burma. we need to bring order to burma. the burmese government must be required to comply with the declaration of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic minorities. we must demand that the burmese government stop blocking humanitarian organizations' access to rohingya refugee camps on burmese territory. finally, commissioner, if you will listen to me, i have a question. i would like to ask you a question, commissioner. in 2012, we decided to bring burma back into the gsp, which allows it to export its products without tariffs or quotas to the european market, except for arms and ammunition. if burma continues to violate human rights in such a systematic way, does the commission intend to call this reintegration into question?
author. since the abolition of the constitution and the ban on political parties in 1973, the absolute monarchy in swaziland has been in sharp contrast to developments in neighbouring south africa and mozambique. the current king, mswati iii, also retains supreme powers in the administrative, judicial and legislative fields and shows little willingness to share power. under his rule, the human rights situation and the standard of living suffered a sharp decline. the number of aids cases is among the highest in the world, and life expectancy has fallen along with it, adding thousands of orphans. we condemn today the unjust conviction and imprisonment of thulani maseko and bheki makhubu. however, they are not an isolated case and are part of a worrying trend to stifle freedom of expression and peaceful assembly and to ignore the demands of opposition parties and trade unions for a democratic rule of law. however, swaziland is bound by the cotonou agreement to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the eu's policy towards swaziland should therefore not only aim at the immediate release of thulani maseko and bheki makhubu and all other political prisoners, but also at enabling the transition to a democratic state under the rule of law and a better socioeconomic situation.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently surrounded by crises and conflicts. the common security and defence policy (csdp) should therefore be the focus of our attention. the report suggests that the only way forward for the eu is strong international cooperation, particularly with the united nations, nato, the african union and the osce. however, this cooperation must also take place at the level of the member states, and incentives must be created for this. another important point from the eu's point of view is the strengthening of the european defence industry. i welcome the report and hope that a common eu strategy on security and defence policy will be adopted in due course.
in writing. ‒ the union is facing increasingly important security challenges, as shown by the many crises at the eu's borders (libya, sahel, ukraine, syria, etc.). it is therefore essential that we make more effective use of csdp tools and that they are integrated into an overall union strategy for action. in addition, member states need to coordinate their actions better on the international stage so as to speak with one voice. they also need to pool more resources to increase efficiency and reduce military spending. finally, as evidenced by recent cyber attacks in some member states, there is a need for member states to immediately strengthen their cyber defence capability to protect critical infrastructures, such as nuclear power plants, against cyber attacks.
in writing. ‒ the csdp is an important asset of the european strategy. it must assert itself as such. the current level of instability at europe's borders requires the eu and its member states to have a comprehensive, coherent and strong strategy for action to address the new security and defence challenges. i therefore supported the resolution calling on member states to use csdp tools more effectively, to improve the matching of internal and external security measures and to share resources more, in order to fight terrorism and organised crime, but also to strengthen cyber defence and to address the challenges of migration. the eu needs operational resources to assert its own strategic autonomy. it must also be able to protect critical digital infrastructures against cyber attacks. i hope that the european council on security and defence on 25 and 26 june will follow the same path.
in writing. the increasing number of conflicts at our borders represents a major challenge for the security of europe's 500 million citizens. the union does not yet have the operational, capability and industrial resources to form an integrated military force. this would enable it to respond to international crises more quickly and effectively, and also to become a major power in the defence of its strategic interests. the tradition of soft power which is dear to our union must be accompanied by a strong military component. there is no community of destiny without common defense. there can be no foreign policy without a defence policy of the union commensurate with its economic capacity. europe can no longer rely on the american strategic shield. it must develop a defence that is the armed arm of nato. i therefore fully support this report and any future initiatives towards a more integrated and coordinated common security and defence policy among all the member states.
in writing. ‒ according to jean monnet, 'europe will be made in crises and will be the sum of the solutions to these crises'. as regards europe and its common security and defence policy, there has been no shortage of crises and conflicts in recent years: in western europe (ukraine, georgia), in the south of the mediterranean (the revolutions in the arab world) and in the middle east (the civil war in syria). but the threat is not just external: the terrorist attacks in brussels, paris and copenhagen have reminded us of the urgent need to protect our people more and better. this requires a budgetary redirection to internal security missions. the budget is not the only issue. as the european parliament recalled this afternoon with the adoption of the danjean report, the lisbon treaty has provided us with the means to be able to intensify our policy: enhanced cooperation, permanent structured cooperation, financing and solidarity mechanisms. there is, however, a glaring lack of political will in some member states to make a concrete commitment to a common security and defence policy. this is the will which parliament reaffirms today.
in writing. ‒ the report i voted for underlines that at present the union does not yet have all the resources it needs to make a decisive contribution to the prevention or management of international crises and to the assertion of its autonomy and strategic interests. the report highlights the structural weaknesses of the missions and operations under the common security and defence policy, in particular the slowness and rigidity of the decision-making process. the report also calls for the creation of a pre-financing mechanism to help member states wishing to participate in operations bear the costs; while recognising that these operations are an important part of the union's overall approach and contribution to international security, it is noted that since 2009 missions have been deployed to enhance the visibility of the union's crisis response, rather than as strategic actions following extensive analysis and planning. the june european council will be devoted to defence. we'll have to follow up.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the union and its member states urgently need to adapt to these new security challenges, including by making effective use of csdp tools and by bringing them more closely into line with the union's foreign policy, humanitarian aid and development policy instruments, by coordinating national actions more closely and, where appropriate, by implementing new mechanisms for the expression of european solidarity in a pragmatic and flexible manner. the lines between external security and internal security are becoming increasingly blurred. i therefore call for better coherence between external and internal policy instruments and for more cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as well as in the areas of cybersecurity and immigration, under the aegis of the vp/hr.
in writing. ‒ every time a csdp operation is decided to be launched, the same problems arise, the debate goes on about who will provide what. this prevents the rapid deployment of csdp missions and these are often modest because member states are reluctant to provide large numbers of men and equipment. in fact, these problems are mainly due to the way the csdp is currently financed. at present, only 10% of the costs are collectively financed under the athena mechanism and about 90% of the expenditure is borne by the member states under the principle of 'paying the cost' - that is, the state which provides the equipment and the manpower also pays the bill. if we want to have real european solidarity and if we want to have an effective csdp, it is essential to consider an extension of the costs covered by the athena mechanism by including the expenses related to the deployment of csdp operations and missions.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the financing of european civilian and military missions must be adapted to new needs, for greater efficiency, more solidarity between member states and more commitments through concrete actions that are perceptible to citizens.
in writing. europe faces many security challenges, both within and outside the union. at a time when budgetary constraints also affect the defence sector, it is necessary to respond to these challenges in a coordinated manner in order to make the best use of the financial resources available. this optimisation can only be achieved through increased dialogue and close coordination between all the actors concerned. in the field of defence, the solution for the future is 'more europe'. if member states were to act in a more integrated manner, their collective budget, which currently stands at €190 billion, would be considerably reduced. according to the european parliament's study on the cost of non-europe 2014-2019, the potential efficiency gains from better coordination at european level on security and defence could reach 26 billion per year.
in writing. ‒ we note with concern that european states are spending less and less on defence, despite the need to increase their investments to respond adequately to new threats. and within these reduced budgets, the missions of the common security and defence policy represent only a small part. the legislative instruments at our disposal are also not sufficient to enable us to use these limited resources efficiently and cost-effectively. unfortunately, it is the european taxpayers who pay the ultimate price for this incoherent management. the economic crisis is often cited as a reason for this lack of funding. we should, however, see the crisis as a catalyst for european defence, given the potential savings that would result from in-depth cooperation between member states. in the scenario of a fully integrated european defence system, the total budget would be €62.9 billion instead of the €193 billion currently spent by the 28 states. the european union could have more influence on the international scene if it could achieve economies of scale for improved response capacity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the multiple cuts in the defence budget require a rethinking of its funding. it is clear that despite a combined annual budget for european defence of around eur 190 billion, the member states are still unable to achieve the objectives set in helsinki in 1999 (i.e. deploying, in 60 days and for a period of at least one year, a rapid reaction force, if necessary, of the size of an army corps, i.e. a total for the land component of the order of 50 000 to 60 000 men, on the basis of the means made available by each country). i hope that the european council in june, which will be devoted to this subject, will be an opportunity to hold a thorough debate and to formulate concrete proposals for a reform of the financial arrangements for csdp missions and operations. in addition, concrete measures will be needed to strengthen the eu's defence capabilities in complementarity with nato, further consolidate the european defence agency and further support a common industrial and technological base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, i share the rapporteur's view that despite a combined annual defence budget of around eur 190 billion, the member states are still not able to achieve the overall objectives of helsinki 1999.
in writing. ‒ for years, european defence budgets have been subject to significant cuts. while in 1997 member states spent on average 2.1% of their gni on defence, this figure fell to only 1.7% in 2007. since the 2008 economic crisis and the resulting austerity policies, this situation has worsened further. moreover, the cuts in defence budgets are made without consultation between member states. this lack of coordination puts the union at risk because it entails the renunciation of strategic capabilities crucial to the csdp. finally, the fall in european defence budgets is pushing european defence industries to increase their exports to third countries. as a result, the european defence industry is becoming increasingly dependent on the outside world, transferring sensitive technologies and promoting armed conflict in other parts of the world. for all these reasons, and if we want to safeguard europe's strategic independence, we must strengthen european cooperation in the field of defence and we must also make full use of the rules of the internal market and create a single defence market.
in writing. ‒ i approve the report on security and defence capabilities in europe. i believe that it is essential to work towards the creation of a genuine european single defence market based on common rules.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. there is no community of destiny without common defense. there can be no foreign policy without a defence policy of the union commensurate with its economic capacity. europe needs a common security and defence policy more than ever to respond optimally to the many challenges that threaten its security. at a time when the european defence market is fragmented and some states are adopting protectionist attitudes, a coordinated response is needed. in this connection, the subsidies and compensation granted by national governments to their industries must be abolished. a unified european defence market would lead to substantial cost savings and would encourage modernisation and innovation by european companies. that is why i fully support any initiative to promote the establishment of a single european defence market.
in writing. ‒ a more influential europe needs a strong and active common security and defence policy, which in turn requires a more competitive and efficient defence and security sector. in reality, the defence industry in europe remains too fragmented, with significant state aid in several countries, leading to a difficult internal competitive situation. european companies are confronted by the large american groups, which enjoy a much larger market. at present, european countries share only a fifth of their equipment purchases and, even worse, they only share an eighth of their joint research and technology effort. in this gloomy context, where the economic crisis is also playing a part, we must make greater use of the means already in place to promote a genuine continental market and improve the competitiveness of our companies. this is how europe will achieve its strategic autonomy and how our common security and defence policy will gain credibility and visibility. this is the role our citizens expect from us, as well as our key allies in the world.
in writing. ‒ the report i voted for underlines that the union does not yet have all the resources it needs to make a decisive contribution to the prevention or management of international crises and to the assertion of its autonomy and strategic interests. the report highlights the structural weaknesses of the missions and operations under the common security and defence policy, in particular the slowness and rigidity of the decision-making process. the report also calls for the creation of a pre-financing mechanism to help member states wishing to participate in operations to bear the costs; while recognising that these operations are an important part of the union's overall approach and contribution to international security, it is noted that since 2009 missions have been deployed to enhance the visibility of the union's crisis response, rather than as strategic actions following extensive analysis and planning. the june european council will be devoted to defence. i hope this is a great opportunity to make a big step forward!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we invite the commission to consider the publication of its green paper on resource governance, initially planned for the end of 2014 in line with its 2014 roadmap, as soon as possible, and to undertake an adequate and comprehensive analysis of the implications of the implementation of the defence package, as well as consultation with defence business associations, member states, the european defence agency and other relevant actors, including organisations active in the fields of conflict prevention and peace and security.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr timmermans, you are obviously speaking today on behalf of president juncker. i think that the european union and you have a credibility problem, not only because in your speech i recognized the press release on the g7 agenda word for word - it was nice of you to read it to us but i had the opportunity to read it before you read it to us - but, above all, when we analyse the european contribution to the debate you have announced. take the subject of climate. i note that the european union, with its recent decisions on objectives, has decided on a less ambitious and less binding programme. we will say, however, that the paris summit must be a success. i would also like to point out that the environmental aspect will be discussed, particularly the problem of marine pollution, in particular by plastics. i note that when this parliament adopted a regulation on the elimination - let us hope - of plastic bags, it was your commission, through you, that objected to our wanting to show more ambition than the commission in its proposal. let us now turn to the question of development. if this is true, the commission has expressed legal reservations about the decision of parliament and the council to be more ambitious than the commission in its proposal. if we look at development aid, we see that the european union not only fails to meet the 0.7% target for direct development aid but also pursues policies, particularly in the trade area, which naturally do not make compulsory compliance with internationally recognised standards, such as ilo standards, as a condition for access to the european market. you tell us that you want to impose, that you want to discuss the respect of social and environmental standards throughout the production chain, but when you want to impose constraints as in the case of minerals extracted in conflict zones, you see all the resistance that this raises. we can talk about the ebola virus and global health problems. what is the ebola crisis? it is clear that europe's contributions to the who are very small, far below what the european union, a rich continent, should be able to do in the field of global health. i could speak on a subject which is not on the agenda, and which is all the more worrying, since it concerns financial regulation. that has been discussed. we said, "never again". today, however, a whole series of indicators show us that we have returned to levels of tension in financial markets, levels of inflation, bubbles, especially in stock markets and in real estate markets, similar to those observed in 2007. now, that's not a topic of discussion. we rejected yesterday a timid european attempt to separate retail and commercial banking, a subject which should not be discussed. each continent, arguing that its neighbour is not taking such strict measures, concludes that the competitiveness of its banks cannot be penalized and that it cannot be subjected to rules which others do not adopt. i listened to ban ki-moon's speech and i heard two words over and over again: leadership and ambition. i am sorry, but today, when i see the positions adopted by the european union - not just the commission, of course, but also the member states - i see that we are increasingly lacking in ambition and leadership in europe. i would like to conclude by saying that i have 30 seconds left and i am sorry that manfred weber is no longer here. i heard the words "gewalt geht nicht" from his mouth and i agree with him. the european union has achieved much by resolving conflicts peacefully, including those between us. but when millions of young people are condemned to permanent unemployment, when british workers are excluded from the unemployment statistics because they have zero-hour contracts, and worse still, when greek citizens - three million of them - are faced with the loss of sickness and disability cover or health insurance which condemns some of them to death, especially those with cancer or aids, i see that this is also violence. it must therefore be understood that if we say 'gewalt geht nicht', violence must not be observed anywhere and certainly not in the policies of the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that i present to you this report on the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools, which is the first legislative report of the legislature on agriculture. this report is the result of intensive collaboration with the rapporteurs of the political groups: mrs ribeiro for the ppe group, mrs müller for the alde group, mr nicholson for the ecr group, mr zullo for the efdd group, mr ropé for the greens/efa group and mr carthy for the gue/ngl group, to whom i am very grateful. with over 22 million overweight children in the european union, it is essential to change eating habits while promoting healthy and balanced diets from an early age. children's health, food education, support for agricultural products - these are the objectives pursued by my report. in order to meet these objectives, fresh fruit and vegetables should be given priority as children tend to turn more easily to compotes and fruit juices rather than fresh fruit. by focusing on fresh fruit and vegetables, the new proposal will meet one of the objectives of school curricula: to reconnect children with agriculture and to support local and european producers, since it was desired to give preference to local products, even organic ones. as regards milk, i think that member states should be allowed to distribute, under certain conditions, cheese and yoghurt in addition to milk, with a view to standardizing calcium intake in school-age children and providing milk substitutes for lactose intolerant children. i am, however, against the distribution of chocolate milk. i do not want to offend mrs köstinger, but this would open the door to other products and, clearly, to flavoured products of all kinds with an excess of sugar. as members of the european parliament, i believe that we cannot claim to be fighting obesity and at the same time promoting the consumption of various flavoured milks containing added sugar. the consumption of these products is not decreasing among children. so she needs less encouragement than others. that is why i sincerely continue to advocate voting against amendment no 49. education measures are a fundamental dimension of the new programmes, with a financial envelope of between 10% and 20% of the total budgets. they will be designed to bring young people closer to local producers and to raise children's awareness of issues such as the variety of agricultural production, sustainability, environmental issues and food waste. in addition, as part of the same educational measures, the children will have the opportunity to learn about local and regional specialties such as olive oil, honey, olives and agen prunes, which i have not forgotten. remember, school plays an important role in training young people for life and in helping them to develop healthy eating habits. the reduction of administrative burdens, especially for schools, the improvement of the visibility of the programmes and the balanced distribution of budgetary envelopes between the member states are other points which we have improved by voting in the committee on agriculture and rural development. by continuing to pursue the same objective, we are enabling more children and schools to benefit from this programme. it was clear that we had to try to gradually turn our backs on the historical reference figures, since croatia (and mrs biljana borzan was telling me about this earlier) has a reference of zero to move towards an objective criterion of the number of children. ladies and gentlemen, i take advantage of the presence of the commission - and i welcome the presence of commissioner hogan - to remind you that there are two threats to this report. the first is the legal basis. i will not go into detail but you know, commissioner, that it is article 43 (2) or article 43 (3). will parliament have the prerogatives it deserves in this matter? will the council take them up, in obvious contradiction to the treaty of lisbon, which gives parliament - as you know - the power of codecision? so it is quite unacceptable to hear this from the council. then, in the commission's work programme for 2015, this proposal was put on hold pending the results of a new evaluation. so can the commission give us any reassurance or information as to the outcome of this evaluation? perhaps then we can hope to pursue this case further.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i wish to thank mr tarabella and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. it is interesting to listen to some of the comments that we have heard today in relation to the schemes. the court of auditors indicated some time ago that there was a problem in relation to proper accountability as regards the schemes operating separately. therefore it was important to come forward with proposals where we could reflect those particular concerns, such as the proposal that is before us in this report which is to merge the two schemes together. even though the schemes have been evaluated before, i think that the decision of the new commission to look at all of the pieces of legislation and all of the reports before it will strengthen the scheme going forward. i would draw the attention of members to the draft evaluation report which was published on 12 may 2015 and where the evidence provided through that particular evaluation report clearly indicates the need for the european union to become involved and stay involved in these particular schemes, because otherwise a lot of the member states perhaps would not actually implement programmes that would have improved the consumption of agricultural products or engage in healthy living – not always a priority for some member states. through these education programmes, some food could be provided for less well-off children in schools and, of course, they could ensure that we have, as many speakers have mentioned, an inter-relationship between urban populations and rural populations in relation to fruit and vegetables and milk products. i think that many people do not recognise that the schemes are actually optional and voluntary. even though some speakers here indicated that they were against these schemes being part of the competence of the european union, the member states which they are from are actually implementing the schemes. for example, the netherlands and sweden have difficulties about having the eu involved in the schemes, but they continue to implement those schemes in their member states. therefore, in my view, it does bring added value to have an overarching eu framework in assisting member states to implement these particular schemes. i want to conclude by thanking mr tarabella and the shadow rapporteurs for bringing forward these proposals. i take on board the concerns that have been expressed, as well, in relation to bringing the council on board in relation to these proposals. the final evaluation report will be available in mid-june which is not too far away. then we can engage with the council to see how we can advance this particular report further.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank my coordinator, mr paulo de castro, who trusted me to draw up this report, hélène cuisinier from the secretariat of the committee on agriculture and rural development, who was very thorough in her work, and maggie coulthard from my political group, and alexandra ionna leone, my assistant. i shall try to answer some questions and objections from members. first of all, i would like to welcome the commission's original proposal, which was in the direction of a restriction of products and in the direction of the objective pursued in the field of public health. in reply to mr rompuy, i would like to say that my group and i support amendment no 50 by the green group, which aims to eliminate flavour enhancers. so i can reassure him on that point. we have talked a lot about local fruits and products, which are indeed supported and favoured, as well as those from organic production. but we must also include seasonal fruit, because in a region like mine, for example, eating only local fruit in winter would be like eating only apples and pears, which would be tiresome for the children. although they are not produced in my country and do not come from the region, oranges and citrus fruits, as well as kiwis - which i will come back to later - are seasonal fruits and are useful for health, in particular because of their vitamin c content. mrs köstinger, as regards the amendment on chocolate milk, i should like to make it clear that i am not an enemy of this product - my ten-year-old son drinks it, not every day, but he does drink it - but, nevertheless, 200 ml of chocolate milk is equivalent to 20 grams of sugar, that is to say half the maximum tolerated and recommended intake for school-age children, which is far too sweet. mr flanagan and mr ashworth were talking about the responsibility of the european union. it is clear that 24 out of 28 countries are consuming too little fruit and vegetables, so if europe can help the member states to improve this aspect, why do you stubbornly refuse the help of the european union? i don't know what you mean. europe, while not having the right to interfere, has the right to have good ideas, hoping that the member states will implement them correctly. there will be no war between bananas and kiwis, it would be useless. both are useful fruits - the banana for its natural sugar content, the kiwi for its vitamin c content. i would remind you that in the outermost regions there are european bananas, which are preferred and which, if not, will be replaced by fair trade bananas, so of course we are trying to give preference to small producers. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to express one regret. food, fruit, vegetables, milk, are important, but perhaps we could have talked about other drinks. given the increase in the consumption of sodas and the proliferation of these products, perhaps we should have promoted drinking water, which can be a useful accompaniment. i hope that it will be valued in educational measures. like you, commissioner, i hope that the council, which is now rather conservative in its approach to practice, will adopt the common view of the commission and parliament to move towards a healthier diet through this programme of fruit, vegetables and milk distribution in schools.
in writing. by taking a position on this proposal today, parliament is showing that it really wants to continue with this programme. the commission had previously announced its intention to test the programme on subsidiarity, proportionality and better regulation and is considering de facto terminating it. we don't see it that way. in recent years, the member states and parliament have developed a coherent scheme to promote fruit in schools. by the way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to decide for themselves whether they wish to participate in the scheme, so that there is no ambiguity as regards subsidiarity. dietitians and policy makers today are racking their brains about how we can turn the diabetes epidemic around and promote healthier diets. that is why this programme must continue. consumption of fruit and vegetables is alarmingly low in the eu. in two thirds of the member states, the absolute minimum recommended by the world health organisation (of 400 g per person per day) is not even reached. we therefore hope that the council will soon make clear where it is going with this proposal and we count on the commission's readiness to continue with this programme as an 'impartial mediator'.
in writing. every year, some 30 million european schoolchildren benefit from the two eu-funded programmes, the school milk scheme and the school fruit scheme. these programmes are aimed at encouraging children to eat healthy foods and adopt healthy eating habits in response to the increasing rate of childhood obesity. in january 2014, the commission published a legislative proposal to merge these two programmes into a common legal and financial framework in order to increase their effectiveness and reduce the administrative burden on national and local actors. in december 2014, the new commission presented its work programme for 2015, which indicated that the legislative proposal on the merger of the fruit and milk programmes was suspended pending an evaluation under the cap simplification exercise. despite the commission's recommendation, i would ask you to vote today on this report so that work can continue on amending the legislative proposal. the adoption of this mandate is therefore a strong signal that parliament wishes to continue its work. i welcome that in advance.
this morning, the belgian state secretary for asylum announced on flemish radio that the number of asylum applications from people from ethiopia and eritrea has doubled this month compared to may 2014. the terrible human rights situation is the main factor in their flight. far too often they die on the mediterranean. belgium has a high recognition rate for eritreans, but it remains the happy few who escape. there must be a viable solution for those left behind in the interests of all. this country ranks 181st out of 187 countries in the un development index. i hear, commissioner, that the dialogue mechanism is being used to improve the situation, but frankly i am afraid, i am appalled by this regime. support to people: i'm going to. support for this scheme: no, i'm not going. i urge you not to deviate from those principles. development and human rights must go hand in hand.
in writing. persistent advanced threats and targeted attacks have shown that traditional security defenses can be infiltrated without the danger being detected for months, valuable data can be stolen and destructive actions can be carried out. and the companies you rely on the most are among the most likely targets: financial institutions, healthcare organizations, major retailers and others. pc world reported an 81% increase in advanced and targeted hacking attacks in 2011. in addition, according to the results of several investigations, 855 security incidents were recorded and 174 million records were compromised. and speaking of the costs of cybercrime in the united states, with an average of 1.8 successful attacks per company every week, the average cost of cybercrime is $8.9 million per company. protection methods must keep pace with the changing cyberattack environment. with the emergence of targeted attacks and persistent advanced threats, it is clear that a new approach to security is needed. traditional techniques are simply no longer appropriate for protecting data against cyberattacks.
in writing. millions of children are still subject to forced marriage, which is a violation of children's rights and violence against women. these marriages are contrary to the rights of girls as stated in the beijing declaration of the united nations. the european union can spare no effort to eradicate this phenomenon which violates the fundamental rights of millions of human beings. all levers must be used, in international law (through the istanbul convention in particular) but also through development cooperation and trade, cooperation and association agreements of the european union to put an end to forced early marriages.
in writing. ‒ by endorsing the tarabella report, the european parliament is voting in favour of new legislation which should make it possible to distribute fruit, vegetables and milk in schools throughout the year in all european countries in a simple and free way. the aim is multiple: healthy food from an early age, food education, the fight against obesity, but also promotion and promotion of the short circuit and local and regional products. no less than 30 million children will benefit from this in the union. a very good initiative by marc which i of course fully supported.
in writing. ‒ the n-va supported the report on the school milk and fruit scheme. in our country, about 1 in 5 young people are overweight, especially younger children (5-9 years old). school projects that promote healthy eating can make a valuable contribution. flemish schools are actively involved in this: thanks to a flemish-european funding, about 1250 schools have participated in the famous tutti frutti every year for the past ten years. in the debate on whether this regulation is a task of the public authorities, positive arguments for the n-va clearly prevail: the rapid increase in obesity makes it necessary to encourage healthy lifestyles among children. moreover, the measure is targeted at a very specific target group and the scheme has a positive economic effect as most of the products are sourced from local producers. the aim of making the existing system more efficient and effective and reducing the administrative burden on schools is welcomed by the n-va. this does not mean that the proposal does not contain a number of points which will have to be further clarified during the negotiations with the council. for example, the setting of educational measures linked to the eu scheme for the n-va is clearly not a european competence.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has this evening supported by a very large majority (458 votes in favour, 97 against) the report on the european programme to support the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. in europe, the consumption of fruit and vegetables is falling steadily. european adolescents consume on average only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. in belgium, for example, expenditure on fruit and vegetables fell by 5.8% in 2014. the annual consumption per capita has risen from 95.8 to 82.7 kilos in ten years. yet, according to the world health organization, adequate fruit and vegetable consumption could prevent more than 1.7 million deaths each year, reduce the risk of obesity, and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. in the european union, 20 million children are overweight. so from an early age, it is important to instill good eating habits and promote healthy eating. that is why i have opposed the distribution of chocolate milk, which is decidedly too sweet, in this programme which will affect 30 million european schoolchildren.
in writing. ‒ every year, some 30 million european schoolchildren benefit from the two eu-funded programmes, the school milk scheme (launched in 1977) and the school fruit scheme (since 2009). these programs are designed to encourage children to eat healthy foods and to adopt healthy eating habits in response to the increasing rate of childhood obesity. in january 2014, the commission published a legislative proposal to merge these two programmes into a common legal and financial framework in order to increase their effectiveness and reduce the administrative burden on national and local actors. in december 2014, the new european commission presented its work programme for 2015, which indicated that the legislative proposal on the merger of the fruit and milk programmes was suspended pending an evaluation under the cap simplification exercise. in spite of the commission's recommendation, we decided, in voting on this report, to continue work to amend the legislative proposal. the adoption of this mandate is therefore a strong signal that parliament wishes to continue its work.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted on the 'tarabella report', a new legislation which should allow for easy and free distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools throughout the year in all european countries. starting from the alarming fact that only 12% of belgians and 36% of europeans eat five fruits and vegetables a day, the objective was multiple: healthy food from an early age, food education, the fight against obesity, but also promotion and promotion of the short circuit and local and regional products. today's vote is excellent news for the health of the 30 million schoolchildren who will benefit from it.
in writing. ‒ the merging of both programmes (milk at school and fruit and vegetables at school) is a good thing. it allows more to be done with less administration, and that benefits our children. i voted in favour of increasing the budget of the programme by eur 20 million because the european union is simply more countries than in the 1970s and 1990s when the schemes were introduced. every child in the eu deserves milk, fruit and vegetables at school. this will help to combat obesity. it is also beneficial for our farmers who are still suffering from the russian boycott of fruit, vegetables and milk products from europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank maria noichl for the work she has done in the context of this report, which can be described as ambitious, concrete, but also as a report which provides legislative avenues and, above all, which sets conditions and opens up possibilities for funding. i would like to say to my colleague from the epp group, since he has come up with an alternative proposal, that it is not ambitious. it shows no commitment, it shows no funding and it shows no legislative position. i think it is a real pity that this parliament is not able to send a clear message even though past strategies tell us that more must be done. there is still discrimination in employment and employment rates which are not favourable to women. discrimination in terms of pay and pensions, but also ethical discrimination, continues to exist. women are victims of violence in europe today. they don't have access to sexual and reproductive health everywhere. we must ensure that such discrimination is abolished in our system in europe, but not only in europe. we also want europe to be a driving force in external relations so that it can promote equality in the world. europe has the opportunity to do so and must have the ambition to do so. this parliament must make that commitment. as you said, commissioner, you need a clear message from this parliament and mrs noichl's report goes in that direction. we hope that all the members of this house will support this report, because we women need ambition. once again, i would like to thank maria noichl for the work that has been done. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, it is true that in general we are few in number when we talk about these subjects, but i hope that we can be very many to vote on this report. i therefore call for an appointment tomorrow, at the time of the vote, so that we can all support it. the fact that we are not here in the travees does not mean that we are not aware of the challenges we face in terms of equal opportunities.
first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which is a very substantial, ambitious and very concrete report. my compatriot, mrs marie arena, has also referred to it. it is a very ambitious, concrete report. but let's be honest, it's actually a shame that we have to have this debate here in 2015 about equality between men and women, that this equality still hasn't been realized. for us liberals, that's actually evidence: it's not your ancestry that counts, it's your future. but apparently, as i hear this debate, that is not the case for all the parties here in this hemisphere. when i hear the ecr call for a vote against this report, when i hear the epp come up with an alternative text, where there is a tacit silence on sexual and reproductive health and rights, where there is no talk about access to contraception or access to abortion. fellas, it is the year 2015. wake up, you! if we don't fight the fight, who will fight the fight? i hear a lot of fallacious reasoning here, like where to decide. i want to close with a quote from a woman who i've always thought was amazing, marilyn monroe. women here in the hemisphere, listen to what she said: women who want to be equal to men lack ambition.
mr president, three months ago we adopted my report on equality between women and men. this report proposed ambitious measures, which were echoed in the noichl report. in particular, we called on the european commission to establish 2016 as the 'european year against violence against women'. this request was also supported by the written declaration which we successfully got adopted thanks to the mobilization of members, and for which i thank you again. the report by my colleague, mrs noichl, is another call to the commission to take further action to combat violence against women effectively. i therefore call on the commission to finally respond to our demands with concrete measures. i would like to conclude by calling on my colleagues from all political groups to support mrs noichl's report. we must take the european motto 'united in diversity' literally. this report may not be perfect for some of you, but here and now it is the european parliament that is speaking out in favour of women's rights and it is mrs noichl's report that is the most ambitious and the most concrete. you who supported my report three months ago, i thank you for doing the same for the report by my colleague, mrs noichl.
in writing. this own-initiative report deserves all our support. it provides the commission with input for the eu strategy on gender equality beyond 2015. i regret that the christian democrats have tabled an alternative resolution which is much weaker. it does not mention sexual and reproductive health rights, lgbtq+ rights, or multiple discrimination. she's weak on references to violence against women. she makes weak institutional recommendations. in my own constituency, too, there is still no equality between men and women. this was recently demonstrated by the equal pay day campaign by zij and the institute for gender equality. the pay gap has narrowed somewhat, but on average, women earned 9% less per hour than men in 2012. belgium is also not doing well in the area of domestic violence. in 2013, for example, 162 people were killed by domestic violence and 39,746 were reported to the police. the number of belgians who were victims of domestic violence rose to almost 1 in 20. incredibly frightening numbers! it is time that this was addressed at european level, but also in the member states. respect is the foundation of any relationship, regardless of gender, migration or socioeconomic background.
madam president, there is no need to stress here the challenge of unemployment, especially among young people. we cannot tolerate the sacrifice of a generation: more than five million young people are unemployed, more than 50% in some states. this is not acceptable. the 'youth' guarantee is being introduced and additional resources have been made available. it's important, but we have to keep trying. too many young people leave the school system without qualifications. too many jobs do not find a suitable candidate because of lack of adequate qualifications and training. all actors now recognise the need to develop teaching and learning in alternance. where these systems are in place, it works. let us learn from this and set up an ambitious system of alternance training at european level. we need to re-launch the social dialogue. social actors are doing the same kind of analysis. the commission may propose to the social partners that they negotiate an agreement to meet this important challenge.
in writing. 36 million counterfeit goods were seized at european borders, worth more than €760 million. these products infringe intellectual property rights and pose a risk to health, consumer safety, the environment and the economy. it also robs 100,000 europeans of their jobs and strikes many smes. that is why parliament voted today in favour of the european action plan against counterfeiting and proposes some additional ways of fighting fraud. in terms of numbers alone, the €470 million a year shortfall and the 100,000 jobs prevented by this shadow economy show the scale of the problem. in 2013, 36 million items were seized, including 10% of medicines, but also toys, foodstuffs and cosmetics. i would like to stress the crucial importance of involving all those concerned by the issue of intellectual property in the development of possible future legislation: citizens, ngos, artists, creators, smes, associations and not just multinationals, as was the case with the late acta.
along with a few other colleagues, i was also given a travel ban for russia on the bus. it shows me the hopelessness and cynicism of a regime that is increasingly driven by revanchism. putin sees himself as the guardian of "tens of millions" of russians abroad, whom he must protect. the idea of the 'ruskiy mir' is gaining him unprecedented popularity, but it is actually serving mainly to secure the power position of his political and financial elite. i quote from the interesting chatham house report 'the russian challenge', which appeared a few days ago: "this russia cannot be integrated into a europe based on international rules unless there is a fundamental change of course in moscow. that change has to come from within!" a point i would like to emphasize in the landsbergis report is therefore that it is important that the eu keeps and improves the lines of communication with russian society, that the eu sends clear signals to all those who have responsibilities in russia that putin's path is a dead end, but that we are ready to become a strong partner again if circumstances change.
the relations between the european union and russia have been a source of concern for several months now and we are in fact in a dead end, in a vicious circle. i sometimes feel that sanctions are being imposed and counter-sanctions are being imposed and that it has actually become a kind of power play. who has the biggest? who dares to go the furthest? and meanwhile, young russian people are growing up with anti-western propaganda and it is our fruit growers, our vegetable growers, our meat growers who are paying the net high price of the boycott. my father taught me one great lesson in life: never argue with your neighbors unless you're willing to move. well, we can't move. i've heard a lot of people here today say they're happy and proud to be on the list. well, i'm actually really glad i'm not on that list. politicians need to engage in dialogue, politicians need to travel. russia is a great country. i therefore intend to visit this country soon. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. i am not quite clear on your question, mr president. we're under a lot of pressure. we need to keep talking like politicians. we don't have to think putin is beautiful or nice or right. he's just the president of russia. we have to treat him with respect. i think that the solution to the conflict is, as some colleagues have said, that we start a new debate on nato, on the european security architecture and that we start that debate with russia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the measures taken to deal with crises in the agricultural sector. a reduction in direct payments (regulation (eu) no 1307/2013) to farmers creates a reserve to support the continued production and marketing of agricultural products in the event of a crisis. european farmers are now receiving direct payments reduced by an adjustment rate. the adjustment rate shall not apply to bulgaria, romania and croatia until 2016 and 2022 respectively.
in writing. ‒ in the draft on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015, it seems to me interesting to note that article 25 provides for aid to the agricultural sector in the event of production or distribution problems. the agricultural sector has often been the victim of injustice and denial. that is why i think it is justified to grant this aid to farmers in case of problems. i think it is important to give farmers the assurance that they are treated fairly. that is why i am in favour of the adjustment rate for direct payments for calendar year 2015.
in writing. the common agricultural policy has enabled european agriculture to survive, even in difficult regions, to develop, to produce sustainably and to make quality products available to all. when we voted for the cap reform, our aim was to make direct payments fairer and greener, to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain, to guarantee food security, to ensure the sustainability of the agricultural sector and to make the cap more efficient and transparent. in this context, the financing regulation for the period 2014-2020 provides for the establishment of a financial reserve to respond to a potential agricultural crisis by charging a percentage of 1,39% on any direct financial aid exceeding eur 2 000. although this represents only a small part of direct payments, its usefulness could prove beneficial in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion. in this respect, as a general rule, farmers applying for direct payments in respect of a calendar year (n) receive those payments within a certain payment deadline for the financial year (n + 1). however, member states may make late payments to farmers beyond this payment period, subject to certain deadlines. such late payments may be made in a subsequent financial year. where financial discipline is applied for a given calendar year, the adjustment rate should not apply to payments for which aid applications have been submitted in calendar years other than the calendar year for which financial discipline applies. therefore, in order to ensure equal treatment between farmers, it is appropriate to provide that the adjustment rate applies exclusively to payments for which aid applications have been submitted under the calendar year for which financial discipline applies, irrespective of the date on which the payment to farmers is made.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is recognised by the eu as both a fundamental value and an objective. against this background, the eu has the power to legislate to combat discrimination against women and men in all its diversity. i welcome this resolution which calls on the european commission to ensure that women and men are not discriminated against on the grounds of ethnicity, class, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, religion, nationality or age. the plenary expressed its support for high-quality and accessible services in the areas of sexual and reproductive health and rights, and safe and legal abortion and contraception. i share that view, even if it is less a european issue than a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015 has come to an end but the european commission has not yet proposed a new strategy. this report therefore sets out the demands of the european parliament. we call on the commission:- a new separate strategy for women's rights;- genuine gender mainstreaming across all policies, including the use of structural funds;- numerous actions to combat violence against women: an iwr, 2016 as the european year, ratification of the istanbul convention;- measures for reconciliation between work and private life, including childcare services, the maintenance of the iwr maternity leave, an iwr paternity leave and a revision of parental leave;- better participation of women in decision-making processes and entrepreneurship, including through quotas;- measures to promote health, including access to abortion and contraception;- actions to combat stereotypes in culture, education and the media, including through the training of staff, taking into account women's right to abortion;- policies on family planning, including access to education and family planning.
in writing. ‒ as an equal rights advocate, i supported this resolution on the european strategy for equality between men and women after 2015. we need new rules, in particular to better tackle new forms of violence against women and girls, in particular cyber-harassment and cyber-bullying. the feminization of poverty can result in an increase in sexual exploitation and forced prostitution. member states should consider ways of discouraging clients and adopt programmes to help women who wish to leave prostitution. in another register, the establishment of affordable childcare facilities should also be promoted to enable women to reconcile private and professional life and to increase their employment rate. i did not, however, vote in favour of certain provisions which i felt either did not respect the principle of subsidiarity, did not fit the purpose of the report or went against my personal convictions.
in writing. gender equality and women's rights are in themselves a political objective, and beyond that an important tool for economic growth and social well-being. i am very pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of an ambitious strategy to strengthen women's rights and ensure equality between men and women in all areas of socioeconomic and political life. by voting for this strategy, we have contributed to the effectiveness of the post-2015 agenda, because only by empowering women to create a better world is it possible to move forward on all fronts. we have embodied a noble objective which is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties of the european union and which is indispensable to the development of our society.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament made its contribution to the implementation of the european union strategy for equality between women and men for the next five years. today, one in three women in the european union experiences physical and/or sexual violence at some point in their lives after the age of 15, only 62.5% of women are in paid employment compared to 74.2% of men, and only 5% of ceos in the union are women. equality between women and men is progressing very slowly in key areas of society (employment, leadership, financial resources, health, culture, education, etc.) and is still far from being achieved. the european institute for gender equality's gender equality index shows this, with the union scoring on average only 54 points out of a total of 100 possible. by rejecting the epp's alternative and very conservative resolution and supporting an ambitious strategy, the european parliament has clearly positioned itself in favour of an effective and coherent policy to eliminate all forms of gender discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. equality between women and men is a core value of the european union and the european union must mainstream it in all its activities. in voting in favour of this report, i am calling for action in several areas such as violence against women and gender-based violence, women's participation in decision-making and entrepreneurship, the availability of abortion facilities and safe and legal contraceptive devices, etc. i also hope that women, but also men, will have more flexible forms of work to enable them to reconcile work and family life as much as possible. in order to act effectively in these many areas, it is essential that the commission formulate its strategy in the form of a concrete action plan. the pursuit of equality between women and men is an important objective for me, and i shall therefore be very attentive to future debates on this subject in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of european gender equality policy for the next five years should be to develop effective and coherent strategies to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and men in their diversity. women and men must be assured that they are not discriminated against on grounds of ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, religion, social class, nationality or age. in addition, special attention should be paid to multiple discrimination. the objectives, which have been repeatedly stated for decades, are being undermined by the continuing financial crisis and the fiscal consolidation measures in the member states of the european union. the economic, social and employment objectives of europe can only be achieved when equality between women and men is complete. gender equality must therefore be understood as a strategic and universal objective. in a context of crisis and the constant threat of regression, this objective must be reaffirmed in the new strategy for equality between women and men of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking into account all the various target groups. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. at the same time, subsidiarity is also important for the n-va. we are aware of the different levels of policy and the division of powers. in this respect, the present report is problematic, since issues such as education and employment are not primarily eu competences. the n-va delegation is also concerned that some of the measures proposed in the report would lead to more bureaucracy, with potentially harmful consequences for the portfolio of the flemish citizen. the noichl report also focuses heavily on quotas, an approach which the n-va does not support. the nva delegation, on the other hand, fully endorses the main elements of the report, such as the fight against violence against women and girls, modern legislation that takes into account single-parent families and lgbt parenting, a human rights-based approach to development cooperation and universal access to health care as a fundamental human right.
in writing. ‒ it is shameful that we still have to produce a report on a strategy to promote equality between men and women in 2015. it is even more shameful that the conservative forces in this parliament have felt it necessary to reduce various rights in their alternative report. the vote was positive, as a majority supported the report, although that majority could have been much larger. i was happy to vote yes.
in writing. ‒ the level of harmonisation of intellectual property protection is comparatively low across the eu and with third countries. the wto trips agreement obliges signatory states to establish arrangements to ensure minimum standards and effective enforcement measures. this report now takes into account the conflicting economic interests of rightholders and users, as well as the increasing digitalisation which is posing new challenges to ipr protection. harmonisation involving third countries is useful and desirable for many reasons, in particular to allow new market entries, to promote creativity and innovation and to ensure international competitiveness in this field. in addition, the report takes account of the specific situation of the pharmaceutical industry and responds to the conflicts between the preservation of competitiveness and economic interests and the guarantee of access to medicines. i consider international harmonization in the field of intangible property protection and the creation of a worldwide standard of protection to be extremely useful and therefore welcome the above measures.
in writing. ‒ the most important element of the report, in my view, concerns safeguarding the circulation of generic medicines and stresses the balance between generic production and the protection of pharmaceutical research. the need to find a balance between protecting intellectual property and ensuring access to medicines for the most vulnerable people. intellectual property-intensive industries account for about 39% of overall economic activity (about €4.7 trillion per year) and approximately 26% of total employment (56 million jobs). however, since the entry into force of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) on 1 january 1995, only a limited number of significant ipr agreements have been concluded, even as technological and societal developments have transformed the ipr landscape. the communication identifies action to promote research and innovation, access to medicines and environmental issues as major challenges for today and tomorrow. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it is very clear that the union needs better tools to protect the union's intellectual property in third countries. the commercial nature of many ipr infringements and the increasing role of organised crime in these infringements constitute a serious threat to creativity and innovation. creativity and innovation are key assets of the union in the global market. we have to protect them. the resolution calls on the commission to address this extremely complex issue in order to balance the interests of rights holders, economic operators and end users.
in writing. intellectual property rights (ipr) make a strong contribution to the development of innovation and creativity. in developing countries, their protection is a key issue for their competitiveness and for their integration into world trade. i welcome the european parliament's vote to give the european union a more ambitious strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights vis-à-vis its trading partners. as the digital world is becoming increasingly important in developing countries, such a strategy will help to combat counterfeiting of trademarks and patents by operators from these countries. it is a step forward in the fight against copyright infringement, which causes serious financial losses and damages businesses and the economy of developing countries. by voting in favour of this strategy, the european parliament confirms the eu's interest in helping its partners develop a healthy and secure business environment.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property is about properly rewarding our researchers, creators and inventors for their original ideas and creations, and encouraging companies to invest in innovative solutions, services and products. it promotes innovation and creativity for the benefit of all. these are all reasons for us to continue our efforts with our international partners to improve standards for the protection of intellectual property rights. the commission is therefore right to decide to revise its strategy in this area. in addition, the lessons of the acta disaster have been learned: we must negotiate with countries that are lax on counterfeit goods, clearly separating the digital world from tangible goods. this revision is welcome, because the fight against counterfeiting is more urgent than ever and europe cannot win it alone. wider international recognition of intellectual property rights and the strengthening of the capacity of partner countries to protect these rights will lead to more innovation, and therefore more creative change and economic growth, for the benefit of the citizens of europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights (trademarks, patents, copyright, geographical indications, etc.) is a priority for the competitiveness and the smooth functioning of europe. in 2013, 36 million items (worth over €760 million) were suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. that is why i supported the report that parliament voted on, which calls for better consideration of the challenges posed by the digital economy and for more efficient tools. the report calls on the commission to create a framework for the convergence of member states' and third countries' interests, with a mutual interest in establishing strong protection frameworks with effective remedies, in order to close the gaps in ipr protection. the text also encourages the commission and the member states to defend ipr better in all relevant multilateral organisations (wto, who) and to promote the integration into the wto system of international ipr agreements which are not yet part of the wto system, such as the wipo trademark law treaty and the wipo copyright treaty.
‒ 36 million counterfeit goods were seized at european borders, worth more than €760 million. these infringing products pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers, the environment and the economy. it also robs 100,000 europeans of their jobs and strikes many smes. that is why parliament voted today in favour of the european action plan against counterfeiting and proposes some additional ways of fighting fraud. in terms of numbers alone, the €470 million a year in lost earnings and the 100,000 jobs prevented by this shadow economy reveal the scale of the problem. in 2013, 36 million items were seized, including 10% of medicines, but also toys, foodstuffs and cosmetics. it is wrong to think that counterfeiting is confined to luxury goods, consumer goods are also affected. finally, i would like to stress the crucial importance of involving all the actors concerned by the issue of intellectual property and possible future legislation: citizens, ngos, artists, creators, smes, associations and not just multinationals as was the case with the late acta.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the eu action plan on intellectual property rights, the commission presented ten points last july. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules and to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules. the aim is to prevent infringements of intellectual property rights by no longer making a profit from infringements - a so-called 'follow-the-money' approach. there will also be measures for smes, particularly in relation to the enforcement of intellectual property infringements. in addition, there will be information campaigns to raise awareness among the population, especially the younger generation. i support these measures and a clear and comprehensive eu strategy on intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ it is common for intellectual property rights (ipr) held by eu companies (mainly trademarks, designs, copyrights and trade secrets) to be infringed on a commercial scale. in addition to counterfeiting and illegal downloading of films and music, these include cases of infringement of patents and designs, as well as theft of trade secrets. in this report, we therefore want the european union to focus on strengthening ipr in the face of commercial-scale infringements and stress that private consumers and users should not be criminalised. we advocate the idea of organising prevention campaigns for consumers on the costs and consequences of ipr infringements. we also insist on respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of the resolution on the eu action plan on intellectual property rights. the european union needs to have a comprehensive legal framework, adapted to the online environment, to combat infringements of intellectual property rights within the union. more and more websites are selling counterfeit or plagiarized products. the frequent seizures and the high-profile destruction of counterfeit goods are evidence of this. the commission and the eu member states, in collaboration with online sales platforms, should identify the best way to detect and combat the marketing of counterfeits. the addition of an anti-counterfeiting protocol to the un convention against transnational organized crime could also be a useful initiative, as could the organisation of awareness campaigns on the consequences of intellectual property rights violations for society as a whole, and for consumers and citizens in particular.
in writing. intellectual property is an important driver of growth and innovation. however, it is currently being violated in many areas of europe. with intellectual property rights-intensive sectors accounting for almost 40% of european gdp, a strong fight against increasing counterfeiting is necessary to preserve and strengthen the european union's industrial competitiveness on a global scale. my attention is particularly focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are an essential link in the knowledge economy and which must be helped and supported to defend their rights. i also consider it essential to raise awareness among customers and consumers. communication campaigns to raise awareness among eu citizens of the impact of ipr infringements, in particular on employment and the economy, should be developed. these campaigns should aim to facilitate access to products that respect intellectual property and demonstrate that it is in the interest of consumers to choose such products.
in writing. ‒ europe's added value comes from its creativity and capacity for innovation. knowledge-based industries and innovative smes have withstood the crisis and are experiencing strong growth. they play a major role in getting the european economy back on track by creating high-quality products and services and sustainable jobs: an annual contribution of some €4.7 trillion to european economic activity and 56 million jobs generated. this positive development is threatened by counterfeiting and a steadily increasing number of infringements of intellectual property rights, particularly within the union itself. this shows that the protection of innovation is as important as the innovation itself. europe must promote more effective protection of intellectual property rights by facilitating close cooperation between the competent authorities on the one hand, and between those authorities and economic operators on the other. we will thus be able to protect not only our economies and competitiveness but also the health of european consumers. but beyond the numbers, it is essential to make consumers aware of the role they too must play in protecting intellectual property rights through their choices and behaviour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which welcomes the european commission's intention, through its 'action plan', to put in place a comprehensive legal framework to combat counterfeiting and piracy within the union. the text also calls for greater involvement of all actors in the supply chain, both online and offline, and for the legal framework to be adapted to this end. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. finally, the document calls for awareness-raising campaigns on the consequences of infringements of intellectual property rights, especially for young people, and for the implementation of a harmonised european system for the notification/removal of illegal goods and content, to enable better information to consumers and businesses through alerts.
‒ 36 million counterfeit goods were seized at european borders, worth more than €760 million. these infringing products pose a danger to the health and safety of consumers, the environment and the economy. it also robs 100,000 europeans of their jobs and strikes many smes. that is why parliament voted today in favour of the european action plan against counterfeiting and proposes some additional ways of fighting fraud. in terms of numbers alone, the €470 million a year in lost earnings and the 100,000 jobs prevented by this shadow economy reveal the scale of the problem. in 2013, 36 million items were seized, including 10% of medicines, but also toys, foodstuffs and cosmetics. it is wrong to think that counterfeiting is confined to luxury goods, consumer goods are also affected. finally, i would like to stress the crucial importance of involving all the actors concerned by the issue of intellectual property and possible future legislation: citizens, ngos, artists, creators, smes, associations, and not just multinationals as was the case with the late acta.
the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol covers only 14% of global emissions, which is less than the first period, of which european emissions account for about 11%. 14%, that's the percentage that puts the finger exactly on the wound. a global binding agreement for the period after 2020 is an absolute necessity. the signals we are receiving from the g7 are cautiously positive in this respect. we must avoid that the important efforts of the eu are drops on a hot plate. we must strive for a climate strategy that not only reduces emissions in europe but also aims to develop competitive technologies that offer innovative solutions to the climate challenge both within and outside europe. we need to make policy choices that are efficient, sustainable and effective. specifically: a circular model, where we manage our raw materials, materials and products more efficiently, recycle, recover and reuse, is good for the climate and will also significantly improve our competitiveness. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. i am not sure i understood your question very well. in any case, i believe that research and development is very important and that policy choices on climate policy can be effective and efficient when they are based on efficient research and development. i'm sure you will.
energy security, many have already pointed out how important it is for our economy, but also for our social policy, for our families, for our industry. after analysis, i think we can agree on a situation where more than half of your energy needs to come from outside europe. it's about 420 billion a year, which is more than a billion euros a day that we spend unnecessarily outside europe. as far as the solutions are concerned, we still have some discussions to hold and there are still differences between the various political groups. in the short term, we must ensure that we act together in the world with regard to the various suppliers. we have to make contracts together. but we must think in the long term and therefore frame energy security in the energy union and also in climate policy. i am very pleased to refer to what the great leaders decided yesterday at the g7. i think that is a lot of talk, but i think we are going to take action. that is a very important framework for me, the long term and the long term investments. because, mr buzek, coal, for example, is not an investment in the long term and in the future. if you build new coal plants now, you're going to be stuck with them for the next 30 years, and that can't be the point. in fact, the commission has already taken the same approach in the past. in the roadmap to 2050, she said, there are no-regret options. there are options that we can take now that are actually the right options from all possible points of view, from social and economic and environmental points of view: renewable energy, energy efficiency and not continuing to invest in fossil fuels. that is why the amendment on shale gas tabled by our group is so extremely important. because why invest in a technology that we know is going to re-use fossil fuels, re-use polluting technology for our environment? let's make the right choices now and the right choices that are ahead of us. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. there is the short term and there is the long term. in the short term, these technologies are acceptable to enable a transition. in our industry, gas and coal have a role to play. in our energy supply, we will have to give up fossil fuels in the long run. so these technologies are not technologies for the long term. that distinction is extremely important.
madam president, commissioner, i agree, of course, with many of the statements which have already been made here. this goes without saying for import dependency, as well as for the fact that we need, in particular, to secure the gas sector and to move forward in that respect. but if there is one thing that can really make a large contribution to increasing our energy security, it is to finally create that internal energy market. it is something that has been on the table for a very long time, but many member states are lagging with the implementation of the measures they themselves have agreed upon. well-functioning gas and electricity markets will secure affordable energy prices for consumers, as well as improving industrial competitiveness. unfortunately, the internal energy market is still kept divided by too many different national policies: we are looking at a dragon with 28 heads, all looking in different directions. a truly common vision, also guided by market logic, will help to improve investment and create a single market. the time has come to really move forward, to make sure that we implement – fully implement – eu rules and guidelines. we need the further development and modernisation of our transmission infrastructure, and we really need the network to start implementing energy security. i am therefore very glad that already this week 12 member states have addressed this at european level. yesterday they agreed to start collaborating and working together, so in that respect we have seen the first steps towards a true energy union that will also deliver on energy security.
tomorrow we shall vote on the report on energy security. i regret to see that the meritorious report by mr saudargas has been turned into a christmas tree of ideas. my colleagues use - or should i say abuse - reports of this kind to try to reopen legislation that is not under discussion. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to decide on the use of energy from renewable sources. the solution to our energy dependence, i believe, is a clear policy with a focus. unfortunately, the report lacks broad-based compromises that set ambitious but realistic objectives and suggest solutions. of course, there are also many positive elements in the report, and i am thinking in particular of the focus on energy efficiency, the better connections of the energy networks and more investment in research and innovation. it is unfortunate, however, that the negative elements threaten to overshadow the positive. but we as a parliament will have another chance in the autumn with the report on the energy union. i therefore urge that we seize the opportunity that we have there to ensure that our families and our businesses have affordable energy.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur for the enormous work he has done to produce a report of enormous complexity, as has been shown by the interest of the speakers - more than 80 speakers - and by the variety of views that have been put on the table and, therefore, i think that he has sought a balance of positions which is very commendable. i have seen in this debate, first of all, the interest shown by the subject of energy security. it is normal: a european union which imports 53% of its energy; in which six member states depend on russia as the only external supplier of gas; in which three states depend on russia for the operation and balance of their electricity grid; and taking into account the geopolitical situation we have experienced, this is a hot topic. but the approach to its solution is multifaceted, as we have seen: there are many ways to increase our energy security. the highest level of consensus i have seen in the debate is around energy efficiency policies. there is a consensus here that it's a win-win policy, it's a winning policy, it's a policy worth pursuing. and just a fact, which is that for every percentage point that we increase our energy efficiency, we reduce our gas imports by 2.6%, we manage to increase our energy security and, moreover, we achieve fundamental savings for european consumers. the second major policy on which there is basic agreement is the development of a genuine internal energy market in the electricity and gas sectors. in the electricity sector, the biggest problem has been raised by interconnections: the fact that there are still many member states that do not reach the 10% interconnection target set for 2020 or the 15% target set for 2030. and so one of the policies of the european commission is going to be to encourage interconnections, the development of smart grids and that electricity flows can be a reality in the european union. but the same is true of gas interconnections: we have not solved all our interconnections at the moment. we have to solve this: the midcat corridor in the pyrenees; we have to develop the networks in southern france to connect with the central european network; in central, eastern and southern europe we have to carry out more than 14 projects to make a real connection in the area. and so we must also have an ambitious policy of interconnecting the territory, because we saw during the recent crisis in ukraine how reversible flows and european solidarity were very important to guarantee energy security in times of crisis. and finally there is a policy, which everyone has also advocated, which is the need for diversification of sources, diversification of routes and diversification of suppliers. the commission is seeking to ensure that no country is dependent on a single supplier and can rely on at least three suppliers, which means developing interconnections; which means supporting the southern corridor to make the gas connection with azerbaijan and, in its day, with turkmenistan; and which means developing a liquefied natural gas strategy which is very important as an element of energy security and as a guarantee in times of crisis. but it also has an immediate effect: it increases competition. the development of liquefied natural gas with a strategy produces immediate effects. we have seen this in lithuania, where the construction of an automatic liquefied natural gas plant resulted in a 20% price reduction because there was competition on the market. the commission will therefore continue to support all developments, all actions within the framework of the energy union to make energy security a priority, and using all instruments. i would like to end by once again congratulating mr saudargas and the four rapporteurs from the four committees who have delivered opinions on this report for their work and for their collaboration with the commission in the development of this report.
in writing. to reduce its dependence on oil and gas imports, europe needs to focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy. at the same time, we are creating growth and jobs in this way. but of course, more is needed. we also need to work on more cross-border interconnections and end the fragmented landscape of uncoordinated national energy markets. this requires a broad long-term vision and greater regional cooperation. this is the only way to set the stage for the much needed investment in the energy market. we must not be too quick to think about it. the g7 agreement, which states that "serious reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions are needed with a complete decarbonisation of the global economy within this century", gives a clear signal about where we should be going in the long term. even if it is beyond our imagination at present how to do without fossil fuels, we must still align our research efforts with that objective. that is the only way to really drive our companies and our economy forward, to become and remain leaders in sustainable innovation and technology.
i welcome the commission's smart borders proposals, in particular the entry and exit system which records the time and place of entry and exit of third-country nationals crossing the eu's external borders, thus calculating the duration of their stay and giving an indication when the allowed period of that stay is exceeded. the package will improve the assessment and control of irregular migration and also better protect the eu's external border against security threats. i am therefore very interested in the results of the pilot project which will examine the options for implementing the said package. but to justify the cost of the two new systems, we must take biometric data and provide access to police and security services from the start of the operation of that system. at present, the possibility of doing so will only be discussed two years after the launch of that system. it's high time we took our collective security seriously.
- a writer. let me first bring some positive news. olaf has many hundreds of hardworking people who make it their job to fight fraud, corruption and illegal practices that cost taxpayers a lot of money. but the report on the activities of the supervisory committee does shed some light on some of the practices within olaf and on the actual workings of the director-general of olaf. some examples: 1) investigations are opened without a sufficiently serious suspicion of fraud and corruption, whereas this is required by law; (2) the director-general of olaf does not take the recommendations of the supervisory committee seriously; (3) the monitoring committee is impeded in its work and has no or insufficient access to documents and information; (4) there is no legal basis for recording private telephone conversations and yet this has been done in a major investigation; (5) statistics on the duration of studies are manipulated in order to speed up the studies or at least to make them appear to do so; 6) the secretariat of the supervisory committee is under enormous pressure, sometimes personal, because it is under the administrative control of the director-general of olaf, so that the person being audited has power over the auditor. the supervisory committee shall consist of five members. they work collectively and are known in their member state as being highly competent, with a great deal of expertise in the fight against fraud. the report on the activities of the commission makes it clear that there is a difference of opinion between the supervisory committee and the director-general of olaf on the role of the commission. the commission is here. you have to take responsibility. commissioner georgieva, who is the anti-fraud commissioner, has to take a stand. the findings of the monitoring committee are serious, concrete and long-standing. so our question is: what measures will you take to ensure that the observations of the monitoring committee are followed up and the problems are resolved? no one is asking you to interfere in operational activities, not even the monitoring committee, but there has to be action, there has to be an action plan. something has to be done here to solve these problems. i look forward to your answer.
mr president, i will not keep you long, so don't worry. i have a humanitarian concern. humanitarian in the sense that i saw president schulz in perfect health yesterday, while this morning, for a very important discussion here in the european parliament, i did not see him. so can you reassure us that president schulz is in good health? (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, set an internationally binding emission reduction target: to meet the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below 1990 levels over the period 2008 to 2012. the eu ratified this protocol in 2002. at the doha climate conference in december 2012, the parties agreed to a further quantified emission reduction of 20% below 1990 levels for the period 2013-2020. for the european union, its member states and iceland, this means limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year 1990 emissions. the doha amendment is subject to acceptance by the parties to the kyoto protocol and will not enter into force until the instruments of acceptance have been received by at least three-quarters of the parties to the kyoto protocol. in its ratification decision 10400/2014, the council adopted the doha amendments to the kyoto protocol, which requires the consent of the european parliament in accordance with article 192 (1) and article 218 (6) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i welcome this resolution because it sends a clear signal to the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in the fight against climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their baseline year emissions. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a specific framework for the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. it seems to me essential at this time to support an ambitious plan to combat climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. this amendment will extend the period of application of the kyoto protocol, so i can only welcome it.
in writing. by approving the draft council decision, parliament reaffirms the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change. the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol set more ambitious and legally binding emission reduction commitments for the second commitment period, which expires at the end of 2020. in the second period, a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases is sought. the eu and its member states have endorsed the joint ambition to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions to 80 per cent of the 1990 baseline. while the eu is making its commitment to combat climate change, it is regrettable that the major polluting countries are still lagging behind. the eu must use all its political and diplomatic means to persuade these countries to join the fight against climate change. a new international agreement to follow up the kyoto protocol is being negotiated in paris at the end of this year. the g7 leaders meeting in berlin this week have agreed to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by phasing out fossil fuels by the end of the century.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of the gardini report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the union has always been at the forefront of the fight against global warming. this is also true of the target of reducing emissions by up to 20% compared to 1990 levels for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (2013-2020). the dual approach between rich and developing countries, which was introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997, will have to be overcome, since large regions that are among the world's main polluters - china, india and brazil - are not currently subject to the obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. a common and binding commitment of the main economic blocs to the planet and the environment is a sine qua non for the success of the paris international climate summit (cop21), which starts on 30 november. it should be added that this agreement is one of the last chances for the world's main decision-makers to preserve the goal of limiting global warming to 2°c degrees.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol on climate change was signed in 1997. it sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. by ratifying the protocol, the european union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels during the first period (2008-2012). in 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment to the protocol which introduces a second commitment period (2013-2020) of legally binding ghg reduction commitments, whereby the union commits to limiting its annual ghg emissions to 80% of its 1990 level over the period 2013-2020. the doha amendment also introduces three changes to the kyoto text which must be implemented during this second commitment period: the inclusion of a new gas; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source. an ambition-related mechanism that provides for a simplified procedure allowing a party to adjust its commitment by raising its level of ambition over a commitment period. the report voted on today endorses the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint implementation of commitments by the european union is intended to send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership role of the european union and its member states in the fight against climate change at international level. it is a pity that the main polluters are not more concerned.
in writing. ‒ as a party to the kyoto protocol, iceland committed to limiting the increase in emissions to below 10% over the period 2008 to 2012. for the second period 2013-2020, iceland declared its intention to comply with the quantified emission reduction agreed at the doha climate conference with the eu and its member states. iceland is a party to the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and the eu regulation on a system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions (the monitoring regulation). the rights and obligations of the member states in the context of joint fulfilment need to be extended to iceland by eu legislation. i have voted in favour of this resolution because it sends a strong signal to the eu's coordinated efforts to combat climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ iceland has expressed its intention to fulfil its commitments jointly with the european union and its member states during the second commitment period. i can only rejoice that a country is following the lead of the european union in fighting climate change in the world.
in writing. the adoption of the proposal for a council decision on iceland's participation in the joint european climate effort during the second commitment period reinforces the eu's role as a driving force and a catalyst in the fight against climate change. at iceland's request, negotiations with the eu necessary to achieve 'joint compliance' with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol with several partners were completed in 2014. by entering into this partnership with the eu, iceland commits to work with the eu and its member states to achieve the objectives of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions and thereby take the necessary steps to halt the harmful effects of climate change. the joint initiative of the eu and its member states on the one hand and iceland on the other underlines the need and importance of a joint, global and international approach to the climate challenge.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol on climate change was signed in 1997. it sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. by ratifying the protocol, the european union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels during the first period (2008-2012). in 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment to the protocol which introduces a second commitment period (2013-2020) of legally binding ghg reduction commitments, whereby the union commits to limiting its annual ghg emissions to 80% of its 1990 level over the period 2013-2020. the doha amendment also introduces three changes to the kyoto text which must be implemented during this second commitment period: the inclusion of a new gas; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source. an ambition-related mechanism that provides for a simplified procedure allowing a party to adjust its commitment by raising its level of ambition over a commitment period. the report voted on today endorses the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland during the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will send a strong signal about coordinated european efforts in the fight against climate change at the international level. the european union has long been a driving force in international climate change negotiations and played a key role in the development of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the eu in july 2013, croatia now joins the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and the protocol thereto as the 28th member state. i welcome this accession to this agreement, which is in the field of justice and home affairs, because it facilitates legal assistance between the competent authorities and courts of the member states in order to guarantee efficient and rapid cooperation.
in writing. ‒ croatia is a full member of the european union and should therefore accede to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. in a globalised world, dominated by the internationalisation of each of our lives, it is essential that optimal cooperation in criminal matters is established in europe to ensure that the fight against crime, and in particular transnational organised crime, is conducted vigorously and effectively. better judicial cooperation in criminal matters is the other face of the free movement of persons and the simplification of administrative formalities. justice must respond to this international crime this accession is in that direction and i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this afternoon the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 thereto.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 act on the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified the accession of croatia to the conventions concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. it is no longer necessary, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which had to be ratified by the 28 member states). article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession merely provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols under that act. those paragraphs provide for the council to take a decision fixing the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia and to make all the adjustments made necessary by the accession of that new member state to those conventions. annex i to the act of accession lists the six conventions and protocols concerned in the field of justice and home affairs. the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union is included in this list. the report voted on today is therefore intended to make the adjustments required by croatia's accession to the convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in its letter of referral, the general secretariat of the council informed the general secretariat of the parliament of a technical error affecting the presentation of the commission recommendation, related to the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states. in accordance with article 1 of the recommendation, the convention enters into force between croatia and the member states for which the convention is in force on that date on the first day of the first month following the date of adoption of the decision. article 3 of the decision states that it 'shall take effect' on the 20th day following that of its publication in the official journal of the european union. these arrangements could lead to a situation of uncertainty as to the actual date. the requirement of publication is an essential procedural requirement. without publication, an act is deemed to be non-existent by the court of justice of the european union. therefore, the decision must first be adopted and published; it shall then enter into force on the date specified therein. finally, the convention should enter into force as a result of the publication and entry into force of the decision.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the eu in 2013, the country is now also joining the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ croatia is a full member of the european union and should therefore accede to the convention of 26 may 1997 drawn up on the basis of the treaty on european union, on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. the fight against corruption and fraud in the european institutions is a top priority for the union. corruption, especially that of public officials, must be vigorously combated in order to ensure the good governance of our union. this cooperation by croatia is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported this afternoon the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union, on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 act on the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to conventions concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. it is no longer necessary, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which had to be ratified by the 28 member states): article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession simply provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of that act. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession provides for this purpose that the council is to take a decision fixing the date on which these conventions enter into force for croatia and to make all the adjustments made necessary by the accession of that new member state to those conventions. annex i to the act of accession lists the six conventions and protocols concerned in the field of justice and home affairs, including the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. the report voted on today is therefore intended to make the adjustments required by croatia's accession to the convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. this recommendation for a council decision, proposed by the commission, is intended to make the adjustments required by croatia's accession to the convention.
russia and the european union have been engaged in a worrying bidding war for years now, in fact since the expansion of nato to the east and russia's first military response in south ossetia in 2008, a dangerous bidding war, a spiral of mutual provocations, which are driving things to a head and which we have known since 1914 that could lead to a major war. none of these mutual provocations has improved, neither european farmers, nor russian farmers, nor the russian economy, nor the economies of the eu member states. it is one thing to condemn in the strongest terms russian violations of the principle of consultation, such as in crimea. the european union countries' commitment to a de facto geostrategic and economic attachment to ukraine, promising the population there money and immigration on behalf of the eu peoples, is another matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. we believe that these are the seeds of further escalation of the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that a constructive, predictable relationship between the eu and russia is possible and in the mutual interest in the long term, but i regret that russia, because of its aggressive and divisive policies in recent weeks and months, can no longer be treated or seen as a strategic partner of the eu at this time. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted, as it calls for a critical reassessment of the eu's relations with russia.
in writing. ‒ in the current context, it seems to me essential to reach an agreement that would guarantee the end of the conflict in ukraine. russia has for some time been deliberately violating international law, the principles of democracy and the values of the rule of law. it seems inconceivable to me that the european union and russia should have a good relationship in the current conflict climate. i am convinced that a constructive relationship between the union and russia would be possible and beneficial if it did not violate the union's values and applied the minsk agreements. i therefore voted in favour of the landsbergis report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because at the moment vladimir putin's russia is trampling on the basic principles of international law by seeking to redraw european borders by force. i believe that any further cooperation with russia can only be envisaged on condition that it respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and that it puts an end to its military and security activities aimed at destabilising the borders of the european union. i would, however, encourage the european union to reach out to the russian authorities and civil society organisations which are willing to develop political and diplomatic relations with the union based on partnership and cooperation. finally, i believe that the latest measure, which prohibits the entry of political figures and officials of the union into russia, is a pure provocation by mr putin, who is clearly seeking to escalate tensions. i dare hope that russia will reconsider this decision.
in writing. in its report on eu-russia relations, which has lost its status as a privileged strategic partner as a result of its actions in crimea, parliament rightly expressed its outrage at the increasingly systematic intimidation and persecution of political activists, opposition politicians and human rights defenders by the russian authorities. the report also expressed dissatisfaction with russia's arbitrary measure to ban european politicians and officials from entering russia. parliament also instructed the commission to examine the external financing of european political parties, for example from russia, and to take appropriate measures. it is worrying that russia is increasingly behaving as a challenger to the international democratic community and its legal order. the european parliament nevertheless remains committed to a constructive cooperation relationship with russia, provided, however, that the russian authorities guarantee international law, universal values and the right to freedom of expression and respect the territorial sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, parliament reiterated its deep concern about russia. and for good reason, the russian leadership continues to violate international law and flout international norms: illegal annexation of crimea, violation of georgia's territorial integrity, measures of economic coercion or political destabilization against its neighbors, etc. the report is not much brighter in respect of democracy and fundamental freedoms. just yesterday, the eldest daughter of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov, who was assassinated in february, denounced that "the russian media, on the orders of the kremlin, is creating a climate of violence and terror". and to top it all off, russia has just published a blacklist banning 89 european politicians, civil servants and military leaders from entering russian territory. russia's behaviour is further isolating it internationally. it is no longer one of the union's strategic partners. the eu and russia should have constructive relations, which would be beneficial to both sides. meps know this and will not close the door on the condition that this cooperation is based on dialogue, respect for international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this report which calls on the european union to critically reassess its relations with russia. relations which are deeply damaged by moscow's deliberate violation of democratic principles, fundamental values and international law through its violent action and destabilisation of neighbouring countries.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am of the opinion that relations between the european union and russia must now be based on respect for international law and on a dialogue in which the european union would be prepared to resume and relaunch cooperation with the russian authorities in a number of specific areas of common interest. we stress that resumption of cooperation could be considered on condition that russia respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea, fully implements the minsk agreements (which include full border control by the ukrainian authorities, unconditional withdrawal of russian troops and weapons, and immediate cessation of support to rebel groups) and ceases its military and security activities aimed at destabilising the borders of the eu member states. the organization for security and cooperation in europe (osce) has proved to be a structure capable of contributing to the resolution of the crisis in a neutral manner.
in writing. ‒ the state of affairs between the eu and russia is not very good, to be honest. although i disagree with many of my colleagues on the approach to relations with russia, i voted in favour of this report because we as the eu must make a clear voice heard. i'm not so keen on the pit wars we're organizing. i strongly urge more dialogue on the ground. what is happening now has deeper causes and we must dare to discuss them.
in writing. ‒ in may 2014, the european commission published the strategy for european energy security in response to the worsening crisis in ukraine. the main objectives of the strategy for energy security include reducing energy demand, in particular by increasing energy efficiency, linking energy networks between member states and increasing domestic energy production. the creation of a european energy union and the completion of the eu's internal energy market are currently given priority. this own-initiative report by the itre committee supports the objectives set out by the commission. the urgency of a common energy supply strategy is mainly due to the eu's current fragile relationship with russia and the high degree of energy dependence on third countries the eu meets 53% of its energy needs through imports from third countries. i therefore welcome the measures taken in the strategy and call on eu actors to work together towards the completion of the eu internal energy market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the energy security model is linked to the energy transition. the priority must be to ensure energy efficiency, promote renewable energy and encourage financial investment in domestic energy production, rather than spending large sums to import energy. developing the green technology industry is essential to create jobs.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the european parliament rejected this report, which was intended to increase safety and reduce dependence on imported fossil fuels. the text called for action to be taken to moderate energy demand and increase local energy production while reducing carbon emissions. it is important to take further action to build a fully integrated and synchronised system, to put in place solidarity and coordination mechanisms and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market. ensuring the union's energy security must be at the heart of our long-term energy strategy. it is the cornerstone of a fully open and free common energy market, which ensures compliance with environmental standards while stimulating economic competitiveness. member states would now have access to cleaner and more cost-effective resources without having to rely on suppliers from third countries which are politically and economically unreliable. it is appalling to see the rejection of this report, which i personally supported. this only increases the doubt about the ability of parliament to move forward on the issues that concern european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i regret that meps were unable to reach agreement on the fundamental issue of the european union's energy security and rejected the saudargas report, due to differences on the fracking issue. the energy issues go far beyond the problem of shale gas and require a long-term strategy for a genuine european energy policy. the alde group has a very ambitious strategy in this area, which i share: it is essential to go even further than the plan for the creation of the european energy union, presented by the commission on 25 february. it is imperative to break free from dependence on russian gas. clean and renewable energy is another objective that europe needs to invest in in order to maintain its technological lead. the present situation, with the union importing 53% of all the energy it consumes, is not sustainable. energy efficiency is essential in this strategy. upgrading residential and office buildings, modernising public transport, using smart technologies and innovating would boost growth and jobs, saving billions of euros.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of this report, which aims to define a european strategy for energy security. the text provides, for example, that russia can no longer be considered a reliable partner because it explicitly challenges eu legislation, particularly in the wto, and exploits energy supplies for political purposes. the report also recalls that parliament has already called on two occasions for binding targets for climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2030. i also supported amendments such as the phasing out of all environmentally harmful subsidies; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text with some specific positions taken through amendments. in insisting on the principle of solidarity, we should stress that energy security is a matter of collective action. member states must ensure transparency in negotiations and adopt a common position vis-à-vis foreign suppliers. as indicated in the commission communication on the short-term resilience of the european gas system, member states' supply strategies are currently unilateral and poorly coordinated. in this connection, we ask the commission to analyse possible mechanisms for joint gas purchases.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is supervised by a monitoring committee composed of five independent experts appointed by common accord of the european parliament, the council and the commission. this monitoring committee regularly monitors the investigations carried out by olaf in order to ensure its independence. the 2014 annual report presented today casts some doubts on the office's success stories. the figures were artificially inflated by tricks with statistics. in this context, i welcome the resolution which strongly calls on olaf to comply with the legal requirements for the initiation of an investigation and on the monitoring committee to monitor better compliance with these legal requirements.
in writing. ‒ olaf must of course comply with the legal requirements governing the opening of an investigation. the supervisory committee must be able to fulfil its role and verify compliance with these legal requirements. it is regrettable that the monitoring committee found it impossible to determine whether the priorities of olaf's investigative policy had been correctly identified and whether their application had had positive or negative consequences for the fight against fraud and corruption within the union.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee points to a number of dysfunctions between the supervisory committee and the director-general of olaf. these comments point to a worrying lack of transparency. i therefore strongly support the request to the commission to take the necessary measures to improve the capacity of the olaf supervisory committee to monitor the independence of the office, its investigative functions, the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of investigations. although olaf is an independent body, it must comply with the legal requirements governing its operation and its powers. in particular, the office shall provide without delay a justification for cases where it has not implemented the recommendations of the supervisory committee. the monitoring committee must be able to check regularly whether olaf is complying with the legal requirements governing its operation. this mandate must be able to be carried out freely, since it is essential to verify whether the priorities of the investigation policy have been correctly identified and whether their application has had positive or negative consequences for the fight against fraud and corruption.
in writing. ‒ in this time of economic turbulence, it is essential to ensure that european taxpayers' money is used appropriately and in accordance with the rules. in this context, the role of the european anti-fraud office is essential. in order to carry out its investigations successfully, the independence of olaf is a prerequisite. but if this principle is abused by the institution to escape democratic control, it risks upsetting the balance of power. however, for the third year in a row, the olaf supervisory committee has reported to us on the difficulties it is facing in carrying out its democratic control mission due to a lack of regulation. parliament therefore called on the commission to look into the revision of legal instruments and to find solutions to ensure that olaf is truly accountable. better control rules are possible, while respecting the principle of the body's independence. it is not just the credibility of olaf and the european institutions that is at stake, but also the credibility of our commitment to combating fraud involving european funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to facilitate the negotiations between the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and its monitoring committee by drawing up, by 31 december, an action plan for the modification of the working arrangements so as to enable the monitoring committee to fulfil its mandate under satisfactory conditions. parliament called on the commission to take measures to improve the capacity of the olaf supervisory committee to monitor the independence of the office.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution and i share the astonishment of my colleagues. olaf is responsible for complying with the legal requirements governing the opening of an investigation. it is worth recalling that of the 423 files opened on the same day, only 8.4% of those which were closed resulted in the formulation of recommendations. the supervisory committee must monitor compliance with legal requirements seriously and regularly!
as regards the so-called situation in hungary, i think the consternation over a referendum held there is totally disproportionate. the hungarians can agree to any question or reject it, and they can do so in complete freedom. i am not impressed by guy verhofstadt when he stood here with the hungarian referendum in his hand. on the contrary, i had a substitute sense of shame. what the hell is this european union getting involved in? verhofstadt and his liberal party have been responsible in my country for the introduction of the right of foreigners to vote, for the regularisation of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, for the introduction of nationality without conditions and for the largest flows of immigrants since the second world war, without ever having felt the need, let alone the duty, to consult his own people on this. this man is not a lesson to hungary.
in writing. ‒ respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are all values on which the european union is founded. moreover, the abolition of the death penalty is both a prerequisite for eu membership and one of the main objectives of its human rights policy. the recent statements by hungarian prime minister orbán on the reintroduction of the death penalty and the public consultation on migration launched by the hungarian government are to be strongly condemned. i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution as a whole. the introduction of the death penalty is not only incompatible with the values of the eu and its charter of fundamental rights, it would also lead to criminal proceedings, which could result in the loss of voting rights in the council. the immigration survey is also highly misleading, biased and unbalanced. i therefore welcome the call on the commission to launch immediately a comprehensive monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary and throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament is showing its commitment to respect for fundamental rights in hungary. the resolution stresses that no member state can flout the values on which the union is founded. meps strongly condemn viktor orban's comments on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty and the popular consultation on immigration. the european parliament cannot tolerate actions and words which are in total contradiction with our democratic values.
in writing. ‒ our union is founded on fundamental values such as democracy, equality and respect for human rights and human dignity. these are the conditions for membership for all eu member states without exception. in the light of the recent statements by the prime minister of hungary on the death penalty in particular, we would like to make it clear that it is the responsibility of every government in the eu to strictly respect these european values in their legislation. the content and wording of the referendum on immigration and terrorism recently launched by hungary are therefore totally unacceptable. the tone is misleading and un-nuanced and runs counter to our fundamental european values which are embedded in the eu's legislative process. we therefore expressly ask the european commissioner responsible to examine the situation in hungary and to report to parliament by september.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i think it is necessary to tell viktor orban that there are limits that a democrat cannot cross. the need to curb the development of the far right does not justify the use of its ideas or methods. i strongly condemn the public consultation on immigration and the national poster campaign launched by the hungarian government on the subject: the content and wording of the questions are unacceptable in that they convey a perverse analogy between immigration and security threats. finally, i regret the council's lack of reaction to the latest events in hungary and i denounce the lack of determination on the part of the member states to ensure respect for the rule of law.
in writing. viktor orbán, prime minister of hungary, is leading his country into an autocratic drift that is totally incompatible with our european humanistic and democratic values. the arithmetical majority is a necessary condition of democracy but it is not, and never will be, a sufficient condition. in reality, it is a tyranny of the majority. his comments on the death penalty, his questionnaire which manipulates and suggests complacent answers are all manifestations of methods which are totally contrary to the spirit and the letter of our treaties. mr orbán is slowly burning our values for authoritarian purposes. he's leading a beautiful people backwards in history. but the hungarians have already paid the price of totalitarianism. how many more outrages will european humanists have to endure from a head of government who is constantly humiliating our institutions in order to cynically flatter his vanity and a dubious taste for increasingly absolute power? this resolution is a strong call from the european parliament for action. it is urgent to equip the european union with the tools to enable it to play its full role as the unwavering guarantor of our values.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament called on the hungarian government not to revive the debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty and to abolish its public consultation on immigration. the controversies with the european authorities have been a constant feature of prime minister viktor orban since he came to power in 2010. the european commission and the european parliament regularly accuse the hungarian reforms of being contrary to the values of the union. the european parliament, through this resolution, wanted to take a stand following the recent declarations from budapest. by declaring that he is considering the reintroduction of the death penalty in his country, viktor orban is in total contradiction with the spirit and letter of the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties of the european union. moreover, at a time when the far-right party jobbik is steadily gaining ground and xenophobia in this country is at its highest level in 14 years, the public consultation on immigration launched by orban is unacceptable, as the link it establishes between migration and security problems is tendentious. more broadly, by this vote, meps have pointed the finger at viktor orban's policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the european commission to report on the state of democracy in hungary following the controversial actions and statements of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán. i also call on the commission to establish a mechanism to monitor democracy, the rule of law and human rights annually in the european union. shared eu values and the application of the charter of fundamental rights as signed by all member states are more than a prerequisite for membership of the european union; they're part of his reason for being. no drifting is allowed !
in writing. ‒ there is growing concern about political developments and the lack of respect for human rights in hungary. the european parliament rightly calls on prime minister viktor orban to come to order. the eu, and especially the christian-democratic family, has an obligation to itself not to look away. orban wants to reinstate the death penalty. orban's campaign against migrants and for the death penalty are contrary to the european values that his country endorsed when it joined. when will we hear a moral appeal from the christian-democratic european people's party? why did they not support the joint resolution? or have they really gotten past the cynicism? if fundamental rights are being violated in a european country, the eu must intervene. if not, europe will lose all credibility: we can bring greece to its knees for not respecting the maastricht criteria, but we cannot bring dictator orban to his knees for ignoring fundamental rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this body should be able to take measures to ensure compliance with the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention.
in writing. ‒ the president of the commission says that the hungarian president is a dictator. the constitution criminalizes rape and homelessness. freedom of expression is violated and roma are discriminated against, etc. the examples of violations of european values are so numerous that the resolution is still too lenient.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because i am opposed in principle to turkey's accession to the european union. if we do not want to jeopardize the way in which we operate and the original idea of europe, the european union must not be expanded indefinitely. the european union, which only accepts new members on the basis of democratic and economic development criteria, will inevitably have to accept those countries which one day actually meet these criteria. but we have to draw the line somewhere. i do not want to reject a privileged partnership with turkey. but even for this, the necessary concessions have not yet been made. the negotiations with turkey, the candidate country, have been going on for ten years now, and in that period there have been more setbacks than progress. the eu would be well served by a closer partnership, for example to combat more effectively terrorist groups such as is in the crisis regions of syria and iraq, which directly border turkey.
in writing. ‒ this is an annual report on the follow-up of the year 2014 concerning turkey. the report highlights the adoption of a democratisation package in 2013, the implementation of the eu-turkey readmission agreement and the opening of a visa policy dialogue. it recognised the key role played by turkey in providing humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees (1.7 million). it also welcomed the progress made in the settlement of the kurdish question. the report, however, points to restrictions on freedom of expression, especially the internet law and the ban on social media to prevent them from revealing corruption facts. pressure on the media is also condemned.
in writing. ‒ in terms of content, i agreed with most of the guidelines and requests in the 2014 follow-up report on turkey. i believe that a large country like turkey, which has relations with the eu (customs union), must step up its efforts to strengthen the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, respect for freedom of expression and more generally for freedoms. this development is necessary in the interests of the turkish people, irrespective of turkey's eventual accession to the union. i am not personally in favour of membership for a number of reasons which i cannot explain here. that is why i wanted to send a clear political signal by voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ the question of whether turkey made progress in 2014 on the path to eventual membership of the european union is already answered. and the blame lies with the regime of president erdogan, which in recent years has multiplied serious acts both domestically and internationally. the turkish electorate was not wrong, however, when it refused last sunday, for the first time in 13 years, to give the akp an absolute majority. the list of facts which are in flagrant contradiction with european values would be too long, but some of them constitute a "knife-strike" in the pre-accession contract. turkey remains the world's number one prison for journalists. and what about the circumstances surrounding the armenian genocide? it is clear that turkey is still not at peace with its history and has not done its duty of memory. the brutal reactions of the turkish president and prime minister to pope francis' recognition of the armenian genocide on sunday, 12 april, are the best proof of this. it is in this sense that i have opposed the opening of any further negotiating chapters.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution on the follow-up report on turkey for 2014, adopted yesterday, the european parliament welcomed the general elections held in turkey on 7 june, while calling on the country to make efforts in the field of the rule of law, in particular to ensure respect for media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, as well as in the fight against corruption. parliament also called on ankara to put the reform process at the centre of its national priorities. "a new constitution based on provisions to promote a pluralistic, inclusive and tolerant society would be in line with the reform process and would allow for a better anchoring of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law", the resolution states. parliament also stressed the importance of intensifying high-level dialogue and consultations between the union and turkey on foreign and security policy issues so that these policies could be complementary. the resolution also calls on turkey to take the necessary steps to normalise relations with the republic of cyprus and to put an end to the repeated violations of greek airspace and territorial waters.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution on the 2014 progress report on the situation in turkey. the european parliament rightly welcomes the election on 7 june 2015 of the most inclusive and representative parliament in turkey's modern history. it is a reflection of the diversity of the country. we rightly praise the resilience of turkish democracy and the democratic spirit of the turkish people. this is evident, among other things, from the very high turnout and the impressive participation of civil society volunteers on election day. we rightly urge all political parties to work towards the establishment of a stable and inclusive government in order to revitalise the democratization process in turkey and the reform dialogue with the eu. the hdp's election result is a strong signal of the strong sense of the turkish people's need for progress and democracy and of their support for a peaceful solution to the kurdish question. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls on the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the armenian genocide. the majority of 550 votes in favour, 47 against and 77 abstentions is in favour of this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. indeed, an effective and functional relationship between the union and turkey, based on dialogue, closer cooperation, mutual commitment and negotiations, is in the interest of both parties, given their geographical proximity, historical links, the sizeable turkish community in the union, close economic ties and common strategic interests. turkey is called upon to place the reform process at the heart of its national priorities. the union must seize this opportunity to become the main driver for the continuation of the democratisation process in turkey by promoting universal values and european regulatory standards as a reference for the reform process and by supporting turkey in the establishment of robust democratic institutions and effective legislation based on respect for fundamental freedoms, human rights and the rule of law, with a view to representing and defending the interests of all sections of turkish society.
the russian attempts to redraw europe's eastern borders are reaching alarming proportions. crimea is further militarized with new warplanes, fighter jets and hundreds of additional troops. like kaliningrad in the north, crimea is becoming a massive russian fortress and there's more. we see moscow ratcheting up the pressure by bringing the frozen conflicts in the region into the fray. moldova, which recently opted for rapprochement with europe, is subject to a heavy russian embargo and is being torn apart internally by an efficient russian propaganda machine. in the southern region of gagauzia, russian-speakers are pushing for annexation by russia. there are also russian troops in transnistria, officially to keep the peace, but today they are an ideal launch pad for the kremlin to build a land corridor from crimea to odessa and on to transnistria. the russian intervention in abkhazia and south ossetia in 2008 was supposedly intended to protect the russian-speaking minority. the same shameful thing is being used by putin in the areas around odessa and mariupol, and he has no sympathy for the minorities. look at the list of human rights violations in crimea against the remaining crimean tatars, ukrainians, jews and greeks. it is time to put a stop to russian aggression. mrs pașcu rightly points out that this can only be achieved by promoting regional cooperation, with nato playing an important role. in this context, the eu must seek a consistent response to the review of the european security strategy. finally, i support his call for a review of the european policy on the diversification of energy supplies with a view to the relaunch of the nabucco project.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, we must not continue to turn a blind eye to the unrest, chaos and massacres in burundi. independent radio and television stations have been destroyed by the police to silence political opposition. journalists have gone underground, others have fled the country, opposition leaders are in exile and no light has been shed on the assassination of zedi feruzi, leader of the opposition party, who was shot dead by gunmen on may 23, 2015. furthermore, to legitimize the crackdown, the government declared that the protests were now considered as insurrection against the legal order. finally, and this seems to me even more serious, we are awakening the ethnic fabric, even though we know that 21 years ago this phenomenon caused real tragedies and a real catastrophe. secondly, i had the opportunity to participate in the arusha agreements in 2001 on behalf of the presidency of the european union, and i can say that mr nkurunziza's decision to participate in these presidential elections is clearly totally contrary to the arusha agreements. so in my opinion, he's disqualified. what should the commission do? i think we really have the opportunity to be effective and the european union must firmly state that the government that emerges from elections held in such illegal conditions will not be recognized by our institutions. we must demand an immediate end to the indiscriminate repression of the opposition, the immediate opening of media space, the return of exiled opposition leaders to the country, the unconditional release of all political prisoners and an immediate end to the harassment of civil society. we must also threaten to close the bank accounts held abroad by the figures responsible for the repression of the protesters and explicitly threaten international prosecutions. mr nkurunziza is disqualified, he can no longer be president. you have to say it. you have the real ability to say it and have an influence on the issue.
madam president, i join all my colleagues in expressing solidarity with the people of burundi. the decision taken by the african union to postpone the elections by a month and a half cannot be considered satisfactory. the conditions for the organisation of elections are absolutely not met: the cni does not exist, the media does not exist and political pluralism does not exist. we must also work on this and the international community has a duty to promote diplomatic contact. but we also have other options: redirecting aid to civil society, or even taking individual sanctions. the latter could consist of preventing mobility through visas, but also of freezing the assets of the populations and persons who are at the origin of the crimes committed and the instability that prevails today in burundi.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, the resignation of joseph blatter will not bring back the 1,200 workers, mostly nepalese and indian, who died on the 2022 world cup in qatar, nor will it erase the manipulations and embezzlements for which he will one day, we hope, have to explain himself in court. this decision is good news for ethics and football worldwide, but it is obviously far from enough: we must wish a new management team well. it is time to clean up the mess and give the international football bodies a chance to become credible. some of the leaders have their pockets full of dollars but their hands are full of blood. this is the detestable image that the citizens have of fifa today. when i proposed back then, more than two years ago, to withdraw qatar from the world cup, many laughed. i see today that this proposal has a positive response from many of you. i would add to what mrs ní riada said a few minutes ago that qatar should be ashamed of itself for preventing nepalese workers from returning to bury their dead in the aftermath of the earthquake. with this resolution we wanted to underline the need for a fundamental reform of fifa. there is a need for a governance that is above suspicion and a fair and healthy framework in which athletes and football fans from all over the world can once again identify with each other. it is the responsibility of the european parliament to use all its influence to give a red card to corruption and to stop the repeated cheating that allows the general interest to be diverted to the very particular interests of a minority greedy for power and money, in defiance of all ethics. we must help to put in place mechanisms to stop these criminal practices, because, let us be clear, through the fifa scandal, it is the whole world of sport and all our values that are being trampled. for the millions of children who still dream about football today, let's urge fifa to restore a positive image of football. a new transparent governance is an immediate necessity.
it 's been said many times here tonight: sport, and especially football, has a great social role. i have always advocated with great conviction that we should also support this from the political and governmental spheres. but unfortunately, with this dismal fifa bear pit - and i am sorry to say so - that has now opened, the social support for this political support is in danger of being wiped out altogether. it is therefore our duty to intervene and ensure that the fundamental reforms of fifa, which we have been saying for a long time are needed, are now carried out quickly and decisively. that is why i expressly appeal to uefa and the national football associations to take the matter to the courts now. but we're counting on you, too, commissioner. we are counting on the european commission and the national governments to take the necessary measures to tackle this corruption in close cooperation with interpol, europol and eurojust, and to do so, as the president-in-office of the council said earlier, by means of the anti-money laundering directive. football is receiving a lot of support from all levels of policy, including financial support, and we are absolutely in favour of this. but that is only justifiable if football is governed correctly and transparently. the next few months will show whether fifa can really make this work through self-regulation. if that is not possible, then the european football federations are no longer in the right. the football fans - and commissioner, you said it yourself earlier - deserve much, much better than what they have been through in the last few days and weeks. it is high time to wipe the slate clean, to start anew and to give society, and above all football fans, the guarantee that football can also be governed properly and correctly at world level and not as a shameful banana republic.
in writing. i invite you to vote on this resolution, which i co-signed, calling for the immediate replacement of the president of the international federation of association football (fifa), joseph blatter, so that the necessary reforms can be carried out within the organisation as a matter of urgency. the recent allegations of corruption, coupled with the inhumane working conditions on the qatar 2022 world cup construction sites, show the world how important it is to look at how fifa works and to shed light on what is wrong with it. football is a sport and i am glad that it can be a celebration that unites nations, but in no case can it be at the cost of the blood of workers and in disregard of rights and duties. it's not just a question of credibility. it's not about dignity. a value that cannot be traded.
author. a month and a half after the devastating earthquake, we get a better view of the relief efforts in nepal and the dramatic situation. it is incomprehensible that the nepalese government still insists on burdensome customs procedures and a tax on relief goods. the distribution of those supplies left much to be desired. elderly and single women now have to walk tens of kilometers to get relief supplies. especially for the dalits, those living at the bottom of the social ladder, it was particularly difficult to get relief goods. officially, the caste system has been abolished since 1963, but the reality is different. if international aid is not better managed, reconstruction may take a long time. and the state itself needs a facelift: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. only in this way can nepal turn the drama into something positive, with the support of the eu in particular. i wish nepal much courage and success.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, as well as its direct and indirect support for the separatists and the human rights violations that have been associated with it. the russian federation is provoking a permanent destabilisation of the strategically important black sea region by continuing the war in eastern ukraine. the report calls for full compliance with the minsk ceasefire agreement and calls for better and more intensive cooperation between the neighbouring states in the csdp. it is essential that the eu builds its own resilience to prevent an imminent risk of escalation and to prevent the conflict from spreading to georgia and the republic of moldova in any event. i welcome the report and would like to reiterate the threat to the entire black sea region.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the pascu report because i believe it is essential to achieve constructive relations between the countries of the union and russia in order to move forward together in a climate of peace. the pascu report is aimed at this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the annexation of crimea has precipitated profound changes in the strategic situation of the black sea basin and the whole region. russia now has a powerful firepower directed to the west and south, where it has stationed a permanent naval force. i am particularly concerned about the development of russia's defensive and offensive military capabilities, and the project to expand and modernise the russian black sea fleet. i believe that relations with russia should in the long term be based on cooperation and not confrontation. however, i believe that in the short and medium term any resumption of cooperation will have to be based in particular on a change in the direction of russian policy towards ukraine. i hope that the ceasefire agreement reached in minsk on 12 february will be respected and that it will allow sufficient time for a negotiated political solution to be found. if that were not true, i think the sanctions regime should be maintained and ukraine should be helped to strengthen its defence capabilities.
in writing. the military-strategic situation in the black sea has changed considerably following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. in adopting this report, the european parliament reiterates that it will not recognise this de facto situation and reiterates its commitment to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. this annexation has serious consequences for the european union and its allies as a result of russia's militarisation of the crimean peninsula. such deployments represent a major strategic setback for nato, some of whose member states are now on russia's doorstep. however, the report remains balanced in that it recalls that russia must remain a long-term partner, provided that it returns to international law.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin. its stability and prosperity are of strategic importance to the european union. russia has significantly changed the configuration of the region through the illegal annexation of crimea, the violation of the territorial integrity of georgia and its attitude towards unresolved 'frozen' conflicts. this return to the politics of force and the militarism of the 20th century is contrary to the peace project that the european construction represents. such bellicose behaviour is contrary to international standards, the principle of the inviolability of borders and all international conventions that russia has committed itself to respect. the intensification of russian pressure on our eastern border is thus leading to a general perception that russia is moving from the status of a strategic partner to that of a strategic competitor, or even a threat. while i remain convinced that border security could be ensured by genuine cooperation with russia, i cannot ignore the impact that the militarization of the black sea basin may have on the overall security of europe.
in writing. - i abstained on the final vote. it is not that my colleague's text is not good or that i do not share the same desire for peace in the region, but because i am disappointed by some of the amendments and i think they may be perceived as provocative. i am also in favour of the autonomy of peoples and their right to self-determination and i strongly condemn russia's illegal occupation of crimea.
in writing. ‒ if you followed the discussions in the plenary, you had the impression that there were two reports on russia that ran exactly parallel. i voted for the report and i think we should support the region. but the idea that we're supplying arms to kiev is way out of line.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the immediate resignation of fifa president joseph blatter, as called for in the motion for a resolution. the corrupt practices in fifa have led to the lasting destruction of the reputation of world football at all levels, from amateur clubs to professional football. but football is more than corruption. it has a great social impact, especially for young people. a fundamental reform of fifa is urgently needed to restore credibility. what fifa needs now is the immediate and transparent appointment of a new leadership and a suitable interim president at the top who is credibly committed to reform. i also think it is important to call on all international sports federations to ensure that candidate countries are committed to respecting fundamental rights at major events. the working conditions of the workers on the world cup construction sites in qatar are particularly inhuman. research by the washington post has revealed that 1,200 migrant workers have already died there. the world public cannot just accept this!
in writing. ‒ recently, the international federation of association football (fifa) has been associated with corruption. furthermore, on the construction sites of future stadiums in qatar, slave practices are deplorable. it is unthinkable that such practices should continue today. in the light of human rights and in order to combat corruption and modern slavery, i support the declaration of the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the joint resolution on the fifa scandal. while i regret that it was the united states that initiated the publicity of the case, the succession of leaks in recent weeks concerning suspicions of large-scale corruption and the arrests and indictments of several officials of the association have finally convinced me that it is essential to review the entire fifa organization. i therefore support the request for the resignation of the fifa president so that a reform of the organisation can be considered and an interim president can be appointed to ensure the continuity of fifa. i also support the request for a thorough investigation into the bids for the world cup in qatar and russia. finally, we must ensure that european anti-money laundering regulations are effective and sufficient to combat corruption in sport.
in writing. the financial misconduct of fifa has seriously damaged the integrity of sport. if fifa is to regain its credibility, it must appoint an interim president without delay, hold new elections quickly, reform its structures thoroughly and implement a financial policy based on absolute transparency and strict ethical codes. it is also recommended that fifa establishes full transparency in all files and tenders that are the subject of possible fraud or corruption. in order to restore the integrity of sport, which is based on universal values such as fair play, peace and solidarity between peoples, it is strongly recommended that fifa and other sports organisations in the future use respect for human rights as a criterion for the award of major international sporting events.
in writing. fifa, four letters that now rhyme with corruption. the clues have been around for a long time, long before the 2018 world cup was awarded to russia and the 2022 world cup to qatar. it took the american investigations to bring the fifa corruption scandal to light. as a signatory to the joint resolution, i am obviously outraged by these most flagrant breaches of sports ethics by an institution which should be setting an example. it's also an insult to the 280 million gamers around the world and the billions of fans. transparency and cooperation at all levels must now be the rule as underlined in paragraph 2 of the resolution which 'calls on sports organisations, member states and the european union to cooperate in all ongoing and future investigations into allegations of corruption within fifa'. it is clear that the heads of state and government and the european union should be more involved in the organisation of sports law, because of the universal values it conveys. this also applies to the commission's monitoring of compliance with the competition rules by all sports organisations.
in writing. ‒ i co-signed this resolution which welcomes the resignation of joseph blatter as fifa president and which asks the federation to appoint a replacement to take over the interim role. the text of the resolution further stresses that officials involved in financial scandals should be removed from their posts, and that decisions related to corruption or criminal activities should be annulled. the resolution also welcomes the statement by the chairman of the fifa audit and compliance committee, who said that the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 world cups could be cancelled if it is proven that these awards are the result of corrupt activities only. corruption within fifa has long been endemic, systemic and deeply rooted. the federation shall initiate reforms, which shall cover the fifa statutes, structure, codes and operational policies and practices and provide for the introduction of term limits and independent oversight of the members of its executive committee. the resolution also calls on fifa to adopt strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for its management and executive committee, which will be monitored by an independent monitoring body.
in writing. - mr blatter's resignation will not bring back the 1,200 deaths on the qatar world cup construction sites, nor will it erase the manipulations and embezzlements for which he will one day, we hope, have to explain himself in court. this decision is good news for ethics and football around the world, but it is not enough. there's no need to congratulate him, it's just time to say goodbye. sepp blatter's position had become untenable. the president of fifa has for too long considered himself a puppet, of whom we have been the puppets for too long and corrupt football the theatre. what we wanted to stress in this resolution is that a profound reform of fifa is needed, establishing a governance above all suspicion, as well as a fair and healthy framework in which athletes from all over the world can believe and recognize each other. it is the responsibility of the european parliament to use all its influence to give a red card to corrupt practices and to stop the repeated cheating that allows the general interest to be diverted to the very particular interest of a minority greedy for power and money in defiance of any ethics.
for the greens/efa group mr president, you have given me the pleasure of presenting our proposal very faithfully. his justification is simple. we know that the european union, and the eurozone in particular, is living in absolutely decisive times for its future. we believe that the inclusion of a subject such as the berès report on the future of european economic governance on the agenda of this session, together with the discussion and adoption of the so-called juncker investment plan, justifies giving more time. mr weber, i know that sometimes the brussels sessions are not very busy, but this time it is rather full. i therefore believe that this house must be given the means to play its part in the public debate at a critical time for the future of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all, i want to say to mr timmermans – i thought you were singing at the end but you were not – that i fully agree with what you said on migration and with the proposals that you have made. the only point that i would like to make is that you have to follow through on what you said. what you said is true, but what we see now in hungary – and mr pittella referred to this – is a scandal in itself, because it goes against the acquis communautaire. it goes against the common and solidarity-based approach that you have defended here in this house. so i hope that, at the end of your second intervention and in the coming days, the commission will be clear that what mr orbán is doing is against the rules of europe and that it will not go through. that is what i accept with regard to both the wall and the other issues. my second point is on greece. i think that we will have a deal. i do not think there is any other choice than to make a deal. there is no other choice, because a grexit would be the worst thing for everybody: the worst thing for the greek people, because the first thing that would happen would be a devaluation and another loss of their purchasing power of 30—40% on top of all the efforts of the past; and it would be a bad thing for europe and for the eurozone, because it would in fact be indicating that the euro is not a stable currency, as you can come in and go out. it would be like a party where you enter when you have money and you go out when you no longer have any money. so i think we are going to find a solution – but will it be long-lasting solution? let us be honest. what we are talking about is eur 7 billion in the second package. we are not talking about a solution for greece, but about how to give these last eur 7 billion of the second package. everybody knows – and everybody is writing – that we will discuss a third package in the future and that it is absolutely necessary to have a fundamental solution for greece. what we are talking about is not a fundamental solution. a fundamental solution for greece would be based on two elements. the first element is that in greece they would really start to end the clientelistic and corrupt systems, the oversized public sector and the non—opening of the private markets. that has not been done. it is not about picking a little at low pensions or low wages but about changing the social system that exists. that is not happening – not with the deal that they are making at the moment. a second point is that we must have a structural solution for governing the debt in europe. i think it would have been far better if they had listened to parliament and if we had started three years ago with the redemption contract. that should have solved the problem. but now we are dealing with a country like greece, which is asking for money, and the others say: ‘we will not give money to greece because what have we received? why did we not receive the same help?’ with the redemption fund, everybody could have the same help in the future. that was the right way to do it. finally, on the report: i am pleased with the report by the five presidents on completing europe’s economic and monetary union, mr timmermans. i think it is a good basis. it is not complete – for example, the redemption fund is not in it – but it is a good basis to start. i hope that we in parliament can support this approach. having said that, i have to tell you something – and i am saying this directly to mr pittella and mr weber: we are going to vote in four or five hours from now on a report – the berès report. what are we talking about? we are going to vote on the berès report, and it has less ambition than the paper by the five presidents. what are we doing? this parliament, which has always been ahead in economic governance in the european union, is now going to vote on a report which does not even deal with all these problems. mr weber, i know how it works and that you have made a little deal downsizing the whole thing and saying that it is an own initiative report. i can tell you that i have seen better reports from pervenche berès. it is not a question of the intelligence of pervenche berès, but it is not the best that you have ever done. having said that, i think that we are going to ask to have it sent back to committee before the start of the vote, because it is completely crazy and completely useless. i say to all my colleagues – and certainly to the epp – that you will now start voting now on a report that has already been taken off the table due to a good proposal from president juncker.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ingredients for a way out of the crisis for greece are known. first of all, it is a question of structural reforms which would enable greece to get back on its feet. i am thinking in particular of the introduction of socially fair, economically efficient and environmentally friendly taxation. the aim is to reform the pension system to make it financially sustainable, while respecting the rights of the most vulnerable and precarious pensioners. this includes reducing military spending, which makes greece one of the champions - i am sorry to say - of nato. the aim is to establish an efficient administration. the aim is to combat corruption and cronyism effectively. the first element. on all these points, the greek government, elected in january, has shown, perhaps sometimes belatedly, sometimes clumsily, that it is ready to engage. the second element is investment. it is well known that investing in greece today is out of the reach of the greek economy. i thank the commission, which, through the voice of commissioner timmermans, has shown that it is ready to commit itself. i would like the council to be prepared to target the juncker plan, particularly on those countries which need it most, and greece in the first place. the third element is to make the greek debt sustainable. the latter was unsustainable in 2010. it was in 2012 after the first aid package to greece. it is still after the second aid plan for greece, and i would add that the structural reforms imposed on greece have made the situation worse. those who refused to consider restructuring the greek debt showed, and still show, either gross economic incompetence, or a guilty denial of reality, or an ideological obsession that leads them to want to make the borrowers pay the price for irresponsibility, leaving the equally irresponsible creditors free to do whatever they want. today, the restructuring of greek debt must be on the agenda and firm commitments must be made on this subject. albert einstein said that insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. i hope that instead of madness, collective intelligence will prevail at the council. i know that there are some in certain creditor governments, in the european central bank - even in the european central bank! - who wish for failure and want greece to leave the eurozone. i know it, and i hear it, because they told me personally. i think that's irresponsible. i can understand why some people are annoyed or disgusted by the emergence of political forces and political options that are different from the one-sided thinking. i think it would be politically irresponsible to refuse this option, because it would be tantamount to opening the way to those - there are some in this house - who make fear, stigmatisation and rejection of the other their business.
draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. as a social democrat, i hope that the whole group will approve this in the future, not only because we have negotiated for a long time and the two main negotiators have my full admiration for their commitment to this dossier, but also because this is the point at which we in the european union are moving from a policy based on savings to a policy in which it is possible to reinvest. as rapporteur for itre, i would like to stress two points, both of which concern money. first, where does the money in this fund come from and second, what are we going to invest the money in? let me start with that last point. in the itre committee, as in other committees, it has been strongly argued that it is important that we invest in the future and not in the past. in other words, investing in anything is not good enough for parliament. in this parliament, but also in the european union, with the support of the commission, we have a clear policy. we have policies on climate, energy, the energy union, the digital union. we know where we want to go and this money needs to be invested in that. that's crucial to us. i am very satisfied with the final compromise we reached on the scoreboard, on the investment guidelines, on the criteria. now , the first point: where's the money coming from? it was a very difficult point for the european parliament, commissioner. we talked about it for a long time, sometimes we had difficult moments. this parliament is very much attached to the programmes which concern the future, in particular investment in research and development, energy and transport. it was very painful to see that it was from there that the money was taken. we have reached a compromise, let's be clear. do i think that's great? am i super happy with it? no, i would have liked to see no euro taken out of these programmes. but we have reached a compromise, which is an honourable compromise, commissioner. but you must know that the next budgetary negotiations, year after year - and i am counting on all my colleagues in the committee on budgets - will be tough negotiations, because in the end we want our money back.
for the enf group the european union countries are now going to provide guarantees worth over 300 billion euros, ostensibly to finance investments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. the banking crisis at the time was caused by funding risky projects for people who couldn't afford them. the solution to the crisis is now to tackle risky projects financed by governments which, owing to their debt, cannot afford them. i will explain to all my constituents why i voted against this insane juncker fund, but i wonder how you will explain to your children and grandchildren later on that you did approve this project and added to it more public debt, with the sole argument that you believed that it would lead to economic recovery despite the straitjacket of the euro.
will this investment plan have an impact on the site? - i know. is this the lasting solution to our problems? of course not ! only structural solutions with strong structural reforms can bring about lasting solutions. the ecr group had a number of fundamental red lines. we are glad that these are also to a large extent reflected in the final text. for example, it is not politicians but independent experts who will decide which projects are to be funded, and that is a good thing. it's also a good thing we're talking about a temporary project. only when we see that the results of the project are good and successful can we think about a new project. but there remains, as has been said on many occasions, a major flaw in this project, and that is the fact that funding for scientific research is being cut, the funding of horizon and sef. i am told here in this parliament that thanks to parliament, one billion less is being saved on these funds and that this is a good thing. this is not a victory, this is not enough! this is not an honorable compromise. this, i think, is a disgrace. there's still five billion saved on horizon and sef. the answer i get is that basic research is still protected. yes, three projects are protected, but that does not mean that all basic research is protected. the innovative aspect of horizon is precisely that fundamental and applied research are intertwined. it is a pity that this has not been respected.
mr president, i have welcomed and supported the juncker plan from the beginning. i had and still have three reasons for doing so. the first reason is that everyone knows that the level of private investment in europe is far too low, even lower than it was before the 2008 crisis. i am convinced that the plan, by using private capital, with the contribution of the european investment bank and the guarantee given to it, by the multiplier effect which i believe it will have, will constitute the first step in the revival of private investment in europe. secondly, i am convinced that the european union needs an effective instrument to help finance investments with a high potential added value, but also with a significantly higher risk than others. finally, i am convinced that the fund's management structures, thanks to their professionalism and thus their independence from bargaining between member states, are a guarantee of success in the selection of promising projects. to innovate, you have to do something new and dare to step outside of corporatism. that's the challenge of the fund. i think he'll make it.
in writing. it is important to highlight the progress made between the final text and the initial announcement of the recovery plan. i am glad that the social sector, education and health are finally among the possible fields of intervention. in addition, the juncker plan will give priority to smes, the main source of economic recovery in many eu countries, including belgium, and will encourage the participation of regions. these advances, achieved through the work of the left forces in the european parliament, fully justify full support, even if we must remain vigilant as to the extent to which the projects chosen actually create jobs. the public guarantee for private investment must therefore be accompanied by the imperative need to create growth and jobs. the fund's monitoring scoreboard, another notable improvement, will be crucial in this respect for assessing job creation, the impact on growth, the volume of private investment and the respect of leverage. finally, while the imminent implementation of the juncker plan is to be welcomed, european decision-makers must show boldness and courage in abandoning the austerity policies in force in many countries, a policy that is both humanly dramatic and economically ineffective.
in writing. i have serious doubts about the effectiveness and the change-orientation of the efsi. it is said that this fund represents a change of course from austerity to a serious investment policy. it is very unclear to me how the efsi and the juncker plan are delivering better returns on social, economic and environmental transition. we are not adding new public funds and are even taking 5 billion away from horizon2020 and cef. what kind of signal are we sending to our r&amp;d world? what guarantee is there that these withdrawn funds will be better used through the efsi than in the regular budget? in addition, the compromise saves 4.1% on climate action and energy r&d funds each time. i also have big questions about the so-called x15 multiplier effect. this is voodoo politics. what guarantee is there that the mechanisms in this plan will work in politically uncertain countries? will investors be willing to go along with this? the efsi shall be supported by public-private partnerships. this is always more costly for the taxpayer than direct public investment. this concept provides for the socialisation of potential losses and the privatisation of profits. or will the richer regions still benefit most from this initiative? i'm not convinced, so i'm voting against.
in writing. i keep wondering if magic will work and bring up those 300 billion euros. worse, i can't understand why in one of the paragraphs some people are happy about the 2 packs and 6 packs! i cannot therefore accept the text. however, i must emphasize the work done by the econ committee, in particular by my colleagues berès and bayet. it is worth noting the progress made between the final text and the initial announcement of the recovery plan. i am glad that the social sector, education and health are finally among the possible fields of intervention. the juncker plan will also give priority to smes, the main source of economic recovery in many eu countries, including belgium, and will encourage the participation of the regions. i agree with the s&d group colleagues who have been quoted above: the public guarantee for private investment must be linked to the creation of growth and jobs. the fund's monitoring scoreboard, another notable improvement, will be crucial in this respect for assessing job creation, the impact on growth, the volume of private investment and the respect of leverage.
author. the stability and growth pact is one of the foundations of economic and monetary union. unfortunately, several member states have not complied with the rules. yet no real sanction has ever been handed down. we have built the euro on too weak a foundation. the first. not just this week, but for the last five years, european politicians have been grinding their teeth over the greek crisis. the greek crisis affects not only the greek citizens but all the citizens of europe. it is our democratic duty to expose all the causes and all the responsibilities and to draw lessons. we must find out what has happened in the last few years, which interests have served whom. we do not need another nonbinding resolution or report. we do need a thorough investigation, including a man and a horse. the second. how can we ensure that the budgetary and debt agreements are finally respected? if we want to strengthen european and monetary union, we must start at the base. it is not worth building on shaky foundations, and so we must finally apply the budgetary rules in a transparent, consistent and rigorous way, and we must also determine how we can develop a system with more independent controls and more automatic sanctions. how can we strengthen the foundations of monetary union? that's the question. i look forward to the replies from the european commission and the council.
madam president, commissioner, the commission, through commissioner moscovici, tells us that this action plan will in particular tackle the introduction of a new legislative proposal on the common consolidated corporate tax base within the european union. it is clear that this announcement can be welcomed in some respects. i think that this measure would make it possible to move towards a harmonization of tax systems in europe. in the context of the taxe committee, all the field visits show us how useful this is. it would also considerably reduce the administrative burden on companies and thus the costs associated with it. it would also greatly reduce legal uncertainty and, finally, i think it would be a very effective weapon in the fight against tax evasion. i would also remind you that this is one of the main recommendations in the recent econ committee opinion on combating tax evasion and tax fraud in developing countries. i insist that this is only the beginning. i think we really need ambitious and faster reform if we really want to achieve the goal of making corporate taxation fairer, more efficient and more transparent in the european union. it seems to me that the commission can go much further, for example, on the blacklisting of tax havens, on greater transparency in relation to country reports, on possible conflicts of interest between the big four, etc. i think it is essential to change things and to have everyone involved in the tax exercise, both taxpayers and multinationals. these are essential resources for investing in the services our citizens need, whether in education, the economy, health, infrastructure, security or social protection.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on legal affairs states that the alleged offence has no connection with the status of member of the european parliament which sotirios zarianopoulos can now claim and that the latter was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts. the parliament therefore decided to waive the member's immunity so that the greek courts could decide on the merits of the case.
in writing. ‒ the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece accuses him of having, by using physical violence, illegally broken into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the noon news and read a press release. the waiver of the immunity of a member of parliament follows a very strict procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity is covered by article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union and may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is absolutely unrelated to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. the same article also states that immunity cannot be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and cannot prevent the european parliament from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its members. this derogation is usually justified either by the seriousness of the alleged facts or by the need to reach a judicial decision quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr sotirios zarianopoulos' immunity, so that the greek judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts of breaking into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3 to interrupt the noon newspaper and read a communiqué have no connection with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament (the procedure having been initiated several years before the beginning of his term) and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member.
in writing. ‒ the person responsible for the file considered that it was clear that the alleged offence had no connection with the status of member of the european parliament which sotirios zarianopoulos can now claim, since this alleged offence was part of an action by the greek trade union pame and sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts. the commission has therefore decided to withdraw the immunity of the member so that he can freely explain himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of immunity is requested for an ongoing legal proceeding in which mr voigt is accused of incitement to violence and insulting in a meeting in a publication of the national democratic party published at the time of the 2006 world cup and for which he was responsible as party chairman. i've approved this request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the zwiefka report, the european parliament is lifting the parliamentary immunity of mep udo voigt, as requested by the president of the kammergericht berlin, and is thus following the opinion of its committee on legal affairs. udo voigt, often described as a "neo-nazi" by the international press, is accused of inciting violence and collective insults in a 2006 publication by the "national democratic party", the most radical party of the german far right, of which he was the chairman. the waiver of the immunity of a member of parliament follows a very strict procedure. in the case of a member of the european parliament, immunity is covered by article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union and may, as a general rule, be waived where the offence is absolutely unrelated to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. the same article also states that immunity cannot be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and cannot prevent the ep from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its members. this derogation is usually justified either by the seriousness of the alleged facts or by the need to reach a judicial decision quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr udo voigt's immunity, so that the german judiciary can continue its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the facts charged incitement to violence and insults in a meeting in a publication of the national democratic party published at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup are clearly unrelated to the function of udo voigt as a member of the european parliament and result from his function as president of the national democratic party.
in writing. ‒ udo voigt is accused of inciting violence and insulting in a meeting in a publication of the national democratic party, published at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as party chairman. the charges are clearly unrelated to the office of member of the european parliament held by udo voigt and are the result of his office as president of the national democratic party. in any event, it is acceptable that his immunity be waived so that he can explain himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ it is important to highlight the progress made between the final text and the initial announcement of the recovery plan. i am glad that the social sector, education and health are finally among the possible fields of intervention. the juncker plan will also give priority to smes, the main source of economic recovery in many eu countries, including belgium, and will encourage the involvement of the regions. these advances, achieved through the work of the left forces in the european parliament, fully justify full support, even if we must remain vigilant as to the extent to which the projects chosen actually create jobs. the public guarantee for private investment must therefore be linked to the creation of growth and jobs. the fund's monitoring scoreboard, another notable improvement, will be crucial in this respect for assessing job creation, the impact on growth, the volume of private investment and the respect of leverage. finally, while the imminent implementation of the juncker plan is to be welcomed, european decision-makers must show boldness and courage in abandoning the austerity policies in force in many countries, a policy that is both humanly dramatic and economically ineffective.
in writing. ‒ growth in europe is gradually picking up. yet too many europeans are not yet seeing much of this revival in their daily lives. in many member states unemployment is still unacceptably high. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a very important and promising instrument to turn the tide. eur 315 billion in additional investment in the euro area; it should create one million new jobs over the next three years. one of the important dimensions and objectives of this fund is to restore confidence, confidence to reinvest in ambitious projects. those projects will be submitted at local level in the member states, preferably through a national investment platform. they're supposed to support the local economy. this swift decision by parliament will allow the european investment fund to get off to a flying start. we now also need a final and balanced agreement on greece at the eu summit so that we can finally break out of the rut and put our economy on the path to solid growth rates, so that there is at last justified hope and a concrete perspective for all fellow europeans who are looking for a job.
in writing. ‒ the economic engine in europe is sputtering. the efsi investment plan may provide for additional investments. but to make our economy healthy again, that won't be enough. a genuine recovery policy with structural reforms is essential. the n-va had some fundamental red lines. we are glad that these are also to a large extent reflected in the final text. for example, independent experts, not politicians, will decide which projects will be funded. that's a good thing because politicization would have deterred private investors. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is disappointing that cuts are being made in horizon 2020 and cef, eu programmes that already provide additional growth and jobs. these programmes are also very important for flanders, not least for our research institutes. it is good that the european parliament has managed to keep some basic research programmes free, but unfortunately this is not enough. with this abstention we want to send a very clear message: the reductions in the successful horizon 2020 and cef programmes should be offset as soon as possible by adjustments to the european budget.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the fernandes-bullmann report today, meps have sent a clear signal in favour of the juncker plan and the revival of investment in europe. i also voted in favour of this agreement with the council on the strategic investment fund which, although not perfect, preserves the essential by reducing the contribution of the horizon 2020 programmes and the connecting europe facility to the financing of the european guarantee from eur 6 billion to eur 5 billion. the juncker plan is thus being launched with a starting bid of 21 billion: 16 for the european union and 5 from the cbi. a sum that may seem considerable, but which will not be too much to attract private investors who need a stable environment. the latter would in practice undertake to co-finance the major infrastructure projects (energy and transport, telecommunications, environment) that had been awaited in vain since the delors era. that is to say, whether europe has an interest in finding solutions quickly, not only to the greek crisis, but also to the stabilization of the euro area as a whole and to the completion of economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved today the european fund for strategic investments. this vote - which i welcome - marks the end of a legislative process which demonstrates parliament's commitment to this plan. parliament has sought to improve the financing structure of the plan's guarantee fund, the fund's governance rules, its working arrangements and its democratic accountability. the main achievements are the reduction of cuts in the european research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and the €1 billion connecting europe facility. horizon 2020 and the cef, two of the three sources of funding for the union guarantee supporting the plan, will now contribute eur 2,2 billion and eur 2,8 billion respectively, each eur 500 million less than originally proposed; the guarantee that the eur 1 billion recovered for the programmes will be paid by drawing on the unused budgetary margins for 2014 and 2015; the list of approved projects will be made public. the council of ministers should now do the same. the juncker plan regulation will then enter into force at the beginning of july, and its fund should be fully operational by september 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments. after peaking in 2007, the level of investment in the european union has declined by around 15% and is now well below its historical trend. this situation is a result of, inter alia, the economic and financial crisis and is hampering economic recovery, job creation, long-term growth and competitiveness. as the recovery forecast for the coming years is only partial, further measures are needed to address this investment gap. it was therefore only natural that the committee on agriculture and rural development supported the european commission's policy guidelines for 2014-2019, which have made this issue a major political challenge.
in writing. ‒ the economic engine in europe is sputtering. the efsi investment plan may provide for additional investments. but to make our economy healthy again, that won't be enough. a genuine recovery policy with structural reforms is essential. the n-va had some fundamental red lines. we are glad that these are also to a large extent reflected in the final text. for example, independent experts, not politicians, will decide which projects will be funded. that's a good thing because politicization would have deterred private investors. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is disappointing that cuts are being made in horizon 2020 and cef, eu programmes that already provide additional growth and jobs. these programmes are also very important for flanders, not least for our research institutes. it is good that the european parliament has managed to keep some basic research programmes free, but unfortunately this is not enough. with this abstention we want to send a very clear message: the reductions in the successful horizon 2020 and cef programmes should be offset as soon as possible by adjustments to the european budget.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has already helped many workers across europe who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies due to the effects of the financial and labour market crisis. in wallonia, several hundred workers made redundant by carsid, caterpillar, duferco nmlk, saint gobain sekurit and arcelormittal have already benefited from the scheme, while a case concerning agc roux and saint gobain glass is being prepared. this dossier, which i have approved, provides for the financing of technical assistance to the commission, which will enable the commission to carry out the evaluation of the projects implemented, to create a knowledge base and to network the member states developing egf projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in the context of technical assistance presented at the initiative of the commission. this technical assistance, which will be financed to the tune of eur 630 000, or 0,39% of the maximum amount of the annual budget available for the emff, is intended to finance a number of monitoring, training and information activities on the emff. in this report, the european parliament recommends that the networking activities of the commission and the member states should focus in particular on improving the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of emff support on the individual participants. it seems to me necessary to be able to measure as precisely as possible the long-term effects on the emff beneficiaries. the european parliament also recommends greater flexibility in the implementation of measures so that states can provide for additional measures if appropriate opportunities arise. while it is important to respect the established rules, i also think it is appropriate to leave some latitude to the member states to maximise the results of each intervention from the emff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my colleague mr deprez. the importance of networking and exchange of information on the egf should be recalled, particularly with regard to the provisions of the new egf regulation. we are voting in favour of funding the expert group of egf contact persons and networking seminars on the implementation of the egf. i would nevertheless stress the need to strengthen contacts between all those involved in egf applications, in particular the social partners and other actors at regional or local level, in order to produce maximum synergies. interactions between the national contact person and the implementing partners at regional or local level should be strengthened. support and communication arrangements and information flows should be explicit and agreed by all relevant partners.
in writing. ‒ the berès report is a contradictory collection of well-intentioned proposals which, taken together, make no economic sense. can anyone explain how structural reforms are being implemented at the same time as large-scale public investment, reduction of public debt, social dialogue with local populations in countries, and the involvement of supranational technocrats from the oecd and the imf? debt, savings, investment, the future of the euro - it's all in this report. while, hilariously, the same report on page 21 admits that there is still no clarity on the definition of one of the basic concepts in economics, namely the 'output gap'. perhaps the commission should first agree on basic concepts before it starts again to take hundreds of billions of european citizens' money at a time.
in writing. ‒ on this technical and complex report, i abstained because while some parts of this dossier call for progress, others are unacceptable. one point is particularly problematic, because we welcome the implementation of the 2/6 package, whereas we want these mechanisms to be adapted. the author also welcomes the commission communication on flexibility. we have approved this because this mechanism can help some countries in great difficulty. however, we do not think that this is sufficient, because this definition of flexibility will not allow belgium to make more investments. the chapter on the future of emu is too late, since it was intended to influence the report of the five presidents, which has already been published. i can, however, welcome part of this report which calls for the replacement of the troika, more tax transparency, a minimum wage and also a change to the european semester.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has exposed a number of shortcomings of economic and monetary union (emu). in recent years, we have of course responded to this by introducing, for example, a modified stability and growth pact, the budget pact and the european stability mechanism. the time has come for new steps to give full scope to economic recovery, in particular by deepening the framework for economic governance and, at the same time, by building up social protection to broaden the european social market economy. this can be done, in particular, by streamlining the european semester and making effective use of the flexibility provided for therein. at the same time, we must now work towards convergence of social standards in the euro area and we want to further strengthen the role of the social partners. their input is essential for a sustainable recovery. this should result in a strengthened social market economy, with a better balance between competitiveness and social justice.
in writing. – i have voted against the report as it fails to reflect the ambition outlined in the 5 presidents’ paper on how to complete europe’s economic and monetary union. the report clearly undermines what the european parliament and our group alde have been advocating for the last 5 years. the rapporteur has resisted forward-looking proposals to improve europe’s economic governance model. it has become a watered-down compromise between the socialists and conservatives on the flexibility mechanism. it lacks in clear direction and has no added value. the berès report does not contain innovative ideas, nor references to a debt redemption fund, no detailed plan for the external representation of the euro area and no plans to give the european court of justice full oversight on the respect of the rules. i cannot support a report which does not respond to the challenges concerning the future of the emu.
in writing. ‒ with speculation growing about a possible greek exit from the euro area and even the european union, parliament must take an ambitious stance on the future of europe's economic governance. the report approved today does not meet that expectation. on the contrary, we are in an incredible situation where the document recently published by the five presidents, containing concrete proposals for getting out of the euro crisis, goes much further than this berès report. we had proposed innovative solutions for effective, democratic european economic governance based on clear rules that apply to all countries. it is regrettable that the socialist rapporteur has not taken the alde group's demands into consideration. what is worse is that this report is a step backwards from previous proposals by parliament. it only weakens the european parliament's position in the forthcoming negotiations on economic governance. i therefore voted against this report, which fails to meet the challenges of the future of the single currency.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament set out its vision of a strengthened economic and monetary union (emu) by endorsing and voting on this report, which emphasises economic convergence and the importance of investment in boosting growth in europe. in order to reform emu in the longer term, the report stresses the importance of promoting the convergence of the euro area economies by setting targets for the euro area as a whole and correcting macroeconomic imbalances between member states. the text calls for the impact of structural reforms to be assessed over time, not only in terms of labour costs but also in terms of social, environmental and economic criteria. last but not least, it should be noted that completing emu will require the same political will as that demonstrated for completing the banking union. something to follow.
in writing. - i did not vote against, but i abstained. i continue to wonder whether magic will work and bring about the emergence of these 300 billion euros. in many ways i cannot understand why in one of the paragraphs some people are excited about the two-pack and the six-pack ! i cannot accept the text. however, i must emphasize the work done by the econ committee, in particular by my colleagues berès and bayet. it is worth noting the progress made between the final text and the initial announcement of the recovery plan. i am glad that the social sector, education and health are finally among the possible fields of intervention. the juncker plan will also give priority to smes, the main source of economic recovery in many eu countries, including belgium, and will encourage the participation of the regions. i agree with the s&d group colleagues who have been quoted above: the public guarantee for private investment must be accompanied by the imperative of creating growth and jobs.
mr president, i would like to raise an issue concerning wednesday’s debate on greece. can i raise that now?
mr president, it is indeed the only option to postpone the planned debate on greece to wednesday, after the summit. but i have to ask you also to try and ensure that not only the president of the commission and the president of the council is present, but also mr tsipras, in order to have a full debate, and mr dijsselbloem from the eurogroup. it is crazy to discuss the situation in greece without the prime minister of greece present in this parliament. i have to tell you that one of my enemies politically is mr orbán, but when we are talking about hungary, he is here. even though i always disagree with him, he is here. so i think that, if we really intend to discuss the outcome of the referendum and possible solutions, the prime minister of greece has to be here, next to mr dijsselbloem, the president of the eurogroup.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, commissioner, the capital markets union is an important part of the eu single market project. its primary goal should really be to increase not only the diversity that companies have in looking for different ways of funding, but also the diversity that investors have in allocating their assets, especially in the longer term. today we have entered a new era, and this is something that is also mentioned in your green paper: we have shifted from financial stability more into a position where we look at growth and job creation. it is also important to use the review clauses that you have at your disposal in the different legislative acts which have been adopted over the last couple of years to recalibrate and fine tune the system, to keep the stability that we have, while increasing the power, the diversity and the funding options for all in the markets. second point: the capital markets union should really serve to remove barriers to private placements and crowd-funding, as well as to allow for the scalability of companies. we talk a lot about smes, but we also need mid-caps, we also need ipos – i was the president of the ipo task force. we also need to keep our companies listed in europe: the competence stays here and the financing stays here. this is also really important. last point: we also have to make sure that we increase retail investors’ availability. we have seen them moving outside of the market – institutions as well – due to solvency ii and other regulations. we have to take a really good look at why, today, they are no longer investing in our markets. one of the issues there – and it is one of the things that is lacking in your plan – is the fact that you have not talked about, for example, the possibility of a pan-european private pension savings plan. this would facilitate the accumulation of the savings of many retail investors and the building of a true base for a capital markets union all across the european union. the last point i would like to make is that we have to take a good look at how regulators are functioning. the gold-plating and the differences are really hampering the single market, and they should be tackled. so we have a lot of work, but our group is in full support of your endeavours, and we hope in september to see concrete proposals that we can support.
i would like to join mr woolfe in putting this debate into perspective, because a normal person would really not think it possible. the citizens of europe are asking themselves: "what's the matter with the euro? isn't this all a little bit out of line? is this the beginning of the end?" that is what the citizens are asking themselves. "is it going to be a grexit? and if so, what about italy, portugal?" all of these debates are happening right now among the citizens. and what does this parliament do? instead of thinking about whether integration has gone too far and whether european integration has not, in the end, damaged competitiveness and the vitality of europe, we continue to debate as if that were the only issue at stake today. we are continuing the integration. we are going to expand europe further. 'more union' is the european parliament's response to what happened in greece yesterday. more union, in this case the capital union, is the answer we think we can give here in the logic of european union. the european union, which is always based on the assumption that more union is always better, while the people everywhere, when asked about it, say again and again: "no, we need less union". every time a european parliament is elected, the group of those who say that there should be less european union grows. and what does this parliament do? it is simply a continuation of the path of 'more union'. the european union's backwater is bad for the people. the people know that, but parliament does not care.
europe will indeed have to learn to cope with the new reality after the greek referendum, just as greece will have to learn to cope with its dramatic socioeconomic situation. the question is not only how greece can reform, but also how europe can continue to do so, so that we can continue to move forward. one of the most important structural reforms is precisely this capital markets union. how can we encourage crossborder investment? how can we ensure that our companies can raise money without having to go to the bank? i therefore wish you every success, commissioner. let's do this exercise very thoroughly. but at the same time, let's focus and concentrate on some quick wins. how can we remove barriers to our enterprises? how can we simplify so that our companies can access that capital that they need to grow and invest? thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you very much for your very good introduction, mr vice-president. you remember, mr timmermans, that you said recently, quite rightly, that 'trash is cash'. who the hell throws away valuable things? well, we produce five tons of waste per citizen per year. we recycle barely a third. we are throwing away valuable resources. and then to think that europe is particularly dependent on third countries for the import of its raw materials. the transition to a circular economy brings environmental benefits but is above all an economic necessity. many companies, including my own in flanders, have already understood this. we need smart measures from europe that remove obstacles, encourage innovation and new business models, and provide long-term legal certainty. we need tools to effectively measure and reduce the use of raw materials, a thoughtful product policy and smarter waste management. that is the main message of the report. if we want to make progress in the real world out here, and not just on paper, then we have to reconcile ambition with reality. in this sense, the text still needs to be improved on a number of points. only then will we be able to send a strong signal to you, commissioner. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. no, i didn't think so, colleague.
the commission is also proposing a number of amendments. madam president, the president of the european commission has rightly stressed the importance of social dialogue and consultation on several occasions. these are essential elements of democracy. economic and social democracy is protected by instruments such as the european social charter or the ilo conventions. all workers must be able to enjoy these rights. however, some of them, and moreover those whose mission it is to protect citizens and democracy, do not always enjoy all these rights. i am talking here about police officers who in some member states are being harassed and see their right to freedom of expression and trade union representation restricted. this is not acceptable. police officers are workers like any other, they must be able to enjoy decent working conditions, support measures, protection of their health and safety, and the right to speak, like all other workers.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, what mr juncker said is completely true. let us keep a cool head and go back to common sense, because the number of irresponsible voices i have heard over the past two or three days about the greek crisis is enormous. people are talking about a grexit like it is nothing, whereas in reality we are not talking about greece: we are talking about the possibility of having a healthy monetary union and of being capable, as a monetary union, of solving a problem like this. we are talking about a historic debt of eur 300 billion – and that is in a monetary union with a gross domestic product of eur 15 trillion. nobody outside the european union understands why we are not capable of managing it. that is the reality today, and so i fully support you. let us get back to common sense and not start in different ways. there is also the international monetary fund, which first of all made a deal round the table and then two days later published a document saying that the deal is not sustainable. how responsible is that? i think, mr juncker, that we have to come up with a new approach. we have to recognise that the way we have been dealing with the greek crisis up until now has not worked. a new approach – and this something that has been said by most of the political leaders in europe – to me means that mr tsipras has to come forward with a credible, real reform package. this cannot just be a number of accounting measures such as we have on the table today, but rather it has to be real in-depth reform. that means ending the clientelistic system – there is nothing in the seven pages today – as well as ending the corruption in the country and downsizing the public sector. it is an enormous public sector, with 800 000 civil servants for the moment. the public banks must finally be broken up, and there must be a private financing sector. the markets must be opened up, and so on. that is the first thing. let him come now. he has to deliver. he has run away from the negotiating table. secondly, let us try to manage the debt in europe together. if we had created a redemption fund a few years ago – and your idea of eurobonds – we would not have the problems we face today, and we would have a real instrument to govern this crisis. finally, let us also prepare – because you never know what may happen – to help the greeks. if we do not help the greek government, then at least the commission should prepare a number of emergency programmes to directly help greek citizens and greek families if it is necessary in the coming weeks and coming months. good luck for this evening.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the committee on the environment is concerned about the possible impact of ttip on environmental, public health and food safety policy. we are already feeling the pressure of ttip in our legislative work. i am thinking, for example, of the debate on the treatment of beef with lactic acid or the debate on cloned meat. the rapporteur, mr lange, has taken many of the points on which we have given our advice. our basic principles and standards, including the precautionary principle, must not be compromised. no concessions either on the implementation of reach, hormones, cloned meat or genetically modified organisms. no ttip on water supply or public health. however, ladies and gentlemen, there are ways of improving things, hence the nine amendments i tabled. the environment committee also opposed the isds mechanism in ttip. the compromise proposed is not satisfactory. that is why i support amendments nos 27 or 40 which call for isds to be removed from ttip. finally, i would like to thank mr lange for the good cooperation he has shown over the past few months.
madam president, first of all i would like to say to those in this parliament who consider any criticism of ultra-liberal single-mindedness to be populist that they are sinking into a form of authoritarianism. as the commission prepares to open a tenth round of negotiations, concerns are mounting. and they are not only rising among certain ngos and trade unions, but also among judges, doctors, smes and farmers. he's worse deaf than he who doesn't want to hear! we have decided to listen to these concerns and to put forward a number of demands in this resolution. i would also like to thank mr bernd lange for passing on these ideas to encourage sustainable economic, social and environmental development in europe today. however, this resolution does not take into account the categorical refusal which has been expressed with regard to isds. commissioner, you have conducted a consultation which resulted in the rejection of isds by more than 90%. yet you are trying to put a number of reforms on the table. we do not want these reforms. we simply want to say, through this resolution, that the public courts and tribunals have jurisdiction to protect investments. any other project advocating isds would not be acceptable.
one in seven jobs, or 31 million jobs in europe, is already linked to trade with the rest of the world. you 'd think: let's amplify that. let us commit to more trade, to more jobs, to more and better products for our consumers, to more opportunities for our businesses. but unfortunately, it seems that some parties choose to be scary. they've screwed up the debate. let us, with this parliament today, give our consumers and our businesses reassurance. this parliament is deciding today what will and will not be negotiated. we have to make sure that we have a strong and fair trade, not at any price, but with proper protection. more innovation, more investment, more purchasing power for everyone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a good ttip agreement will not be the solution to all our problems, but it will be a serious boost to our european economy.
in writing. rarely has a trade partnership negotiation raised such fears. the reason for this is that the proposed transatlantic treaty puts two very different markets and economic and social models in competition. we cannot accept that the harmonization of european standards is being reduced! while i am not opposed to the principle of negotiation with the united states, the mere fact that negotiators do not completely exclude from discussion the arbitration tribunals for disputes between companies and states makes me opposed to it. the united states and europe have powerful jurisdictional tools that make any isds system superfluous. priority must be given to strengthening european unity and to establishing economic and social governance to boost investment and employment. in a multipolar world, the european union must negotiate on an equal footing with the united states, but also with china, latin america and africa. i am for a humane europe in a fairer world. unfortunately, that is not the vision that was reflected in the resolution that is being proposed to us for adoption. it aims to indicate the 'red lines' of the ttip negotiations, but fails to protect all european standards.
in writing. the resolution does not go far enough and certain red lines are crossed, including the rejection of isds. as it stands, the psspa delegations will vote against the ttip resolution. the ttip is, to say the least, divided in the european parliament, with each paragraph being the subject of fierce political battles. we do not believe that there is an isds mechanism! the compromise on the table is a very bad signal. the proposed text is a cosmetic improvement on the current isds system and misses the essential message: national public courts must be the only guarantors of investment protection. at a time when states such as france are announcing their opposition to the agreement with canada as long as there is an isds, the position reflected in this compromise seems all the more incomprehensible. the vote on this resolution is a test and gives an idea of what might happen at the end of the negotiations. at that point, each elected official will have to take responsibility and be held accountable for voting against the public interest. our socialist delegation will be unyielding in any event and will reject any free trade agreement which could endanger the general interest of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. the independent work of the european court of auditors is of the utmost importance for the audit work of our parliament. i wish mrs jakobsen every success in her new role.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control heard ms jakobsen and gave a unanimous opinion in favour of her appointment to the court of auditors. i voted for this nomination.
in writing. ‒ i supported, as did the almost unanimous vote of the meps, the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors in view of her competence for the post. it has more than 25 years' experience in public financial control and has been responsible for the annual reports on financial control of danish public accounts to the public accounts committee of the danish parliament for several years. the court's tasks will no doubt include publishing the court's special reports more quickly and making them more relevant, along with its annual report. this will enable the european court of auditors to play its full role as an independent external auditor of the eu budget to detect fraud and to strengthen the sound management of eu funds. it will be up to the european parliament to play its full political role and to supervise the union's funds as effectively as possible.
in writing. ‒ mrs bettina michelle jakobsen has been proposed as the new danish member of the european court of auditors, following the death of henrik otbo on 1 february this year in luxembourg. ms jakobsen has 25 years' experience as a lawyer and auditor. she is currently deputy auditor general in denmark, responsible for drawing up reports to the public accounts committee on the audit of public accounts. his candidacy was unanimously approved by the groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of our colleague jakobsen.
in writing. ‒ this is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr maštálka on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade. this is a new regulation which follows on from the consultative work of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. and even if this is a mere codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance, it is important to recall certain facts, since the proper application of the common commercial policy is aimed in particular at the application of the rules of the world trade organisation. as a liberal, i am sympathetic to a world without barriers that promotes trade, including trade, but i am also concerned about the lack of major reforms in many international institutions. some of them deserve more than a refreshment. this is particularly the case with the wto, which is unable to conclude the doha round, opened in 2001, and to regulate world trade at the beginning of the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto). the proposal for a regulation is merely a codification of existing texts and does not therefore change their substance. this lack of change was confirmed by the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing union procedures in matters of common commercial policy with a view to ensuring the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ this is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr maštálka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on a new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in shipbuilding. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. in december 1994, the commission of the former european communities and the governments of the republic of korea, the united states, finland, japan, norway and sweden adopted an agreement within the oecd on normal conditions of competition in the merchant shipbuilding industry, an agreement covering about 80% of the world market, which is highly oriented towards asia. 21 years later, the trend has accelerated: china has become the world's largest shipbuilder ahead of south korea with more than 40% of the construction delivered in the merchant marine, the european union building mainly passenger ships. it is this specialization card, with the rise of the manufacture of pleasure boats, for example, that europe will have to play if it is not to remain at the dock.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of shipbuilding against injurious pricing practices, the purpose of which was to codify that regulation. this new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. i am voting in favour of this because the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. it should be noted that the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation by venezuelan fishing vessels of the living natural resources of the exclusive economic zone off the coast. as a result, venezuelan fishing vessels have been allowed to fish for several decades on the condition that part of the fish is landed in guyanese ports. to formalize this situation legally, the commission has put forward a proposal in which the european union undertakes to transfer the right to fish to venezuelan vessels in accordance with the european union's regulations on the conservation and management of fish stocks. after a legal debate on the role of the european parliament, the declaration is subject to its binding opinion. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ fishing vessels flying the venezuelan flag have been allowed to operate in the exclusive economic zone of french guiana, an overseas department, for several decades. however, given the economic and social importance of these fishing activities, and given that the council and the commission considered it inappropriate to terminate them, a different practice was followed: access for venezuelan fishing vessels operating in european union waters off the coast of guyana was granted in the form of a council declaration which, in accordance with the case law of the international court of justice, produces legal effects in international law. the european parliament yesterday gave a favourable opinion in favour of this proposal being approved as soon as possible, which is now possible by resolving the institutional conflict, which had its sole source in a disagreement on the exact legal basis. this will allow fishing activities in the area concerned, the regularity of which has not been affected by this delay, to be covered by the appropriate legal framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. let me say, to be quite frank, that venezuela has complied with the counterparts arising from the proposal, namely that it has complied with european regulations with regard to, for example, the targeted fish stocks, the types of fishing gear, the vessel tracking devices, the fishing declarations, the maximum number of fishing vessels authorized and the percentage of catches to be landed in guyanese ports.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget for 2014 was in surplus of eur 1.435 billion. this amount is transferred to the 2015 budget by amending budget no 3, which has the advantage of reducing the contribution of the member states to the 2015 budget. i therefore welcome this amendment.
in writing. ‒ parliament takes note of draft amending budget no 3/2015 presented by the commission, which is intended solely to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus of 2014 amounting to eur 1,435 billion. it recalls that the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of the gni contribution of the member states to the union budget to the extent due and that, therefore, their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015, which is submitted for adoption at the same meeting, will be more than offset. i voted in favour of this amending budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget no 3, which is intended solely to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus of 2014 amounting to eur 1.435 billion, in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation and the council's position. the approval of this amending budget by the budgetary authority will reduce the share of the member states' gni contribution to the union budget by the same amount. however, i regret the attitude of the council, which has strongly insisted that payments relating to the intervention of the european union solidarity fund be carried over to the 2015 budget for a total amount of eur 126.7 million. the latter preferred to seek funds from other programmes rather than to mobilise the additional resources provided for by the special instruments.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has today taken a decision on the question of funds not used in the previous year, under its budgetary prerogatives. we voted for the member states to be able to recover these amounts, which will therefore reduce their contribution to the union budget. the surplus recorded this time eur 1.435 billion seems to be in line with the trend of recent years, but only in appearance. we already know that a large part of the european union's bills have not been paid. this is reflected in the surplus. eur 142 million could not be used, even though it was planned. this is a very low under-utilisation of appropriations, a record in this field in fact. this worrying situation highlights the recurrent lack of money, which will remain a major problem in the implementation of the 2015 budget. although i supported this report, i would like to remind the council of our firm objective to stabilise or even reduce the amount of unpaid invoices in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 3 to the 2015 general budget in order to adopt this draft amending budget. i would stress that the budgetization of this surplus of 1.434 billion will reduce the member states' contribution to the financing of the budget of the european union. it should be borne in mind, however, that this overall decline will be influenced by the updating of the forecasts for own resources (traditional own resources, value added tax, gross national income).
in writing. - i voted for the text. i regret, however, in general, the council's tendency to honour its commitments to countries in need which qualify for eusf assistance by applying for funds from existing programmes rather than by mobilising the additional resources provided for by the special instruments.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund was launched in 2002. it is designed to provide effective and flexible responses to help member states and candidate countries in the event of natural disasters. i support the budgetary adjustment so that the countries of romania, bulgaria and italy can receive the necessary funds.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 4/2015 covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations following two floods in the spring and summer of 2014 in romania i.e. aid of eur 8 495 950 , floods in july and august 2014 in bulgaria i.e. aid of eur 1 983 600 and floods in october and november 2014 in italy i.e. aid of eur 56 026 300. these amounts entered in expenditure and covering situations linked to natural disasters are largely offset by amending budget no 3 of 2015 which transfers the surplus of eur 1,435 billion in 2014 to the 2015 budget. i approved that point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget to cover the european union solidarity fund's intervention of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations following two floods in the spring and summer of 2014 in romania i.e. aid of eur 8 495 950 , floods in july and august 2014 in bulgaria i.e. aid of eur 1 983 600 and floods in october and november 2014 in italy i.e. aid of eur 56 026 300. the purpose of this draft budget is therefore to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. it is urgent to release financial aid through the european union solidarity fund to these countries which have been hit hard by these natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ in the second half of 2014, romania, bulgaria and italy were hit by massive floods, causing extensive damage to public and private infrastructure, as well as to citizens' homes, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. the council also adopted a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa on the participation of the republic of south africa in the union programme for research and technological development (r & td). this is the first decision to mobilise the fund in 2015, which has a global allocation of €89 billion to deal with the natural disasters that multiply in every season across europe. since its establishment in 2002, the eusf has responded to more than 50 disasters, including floods, forest fires, earthquakes and storms, and provided more than €3.5 billion in financial assistance. a concrete example of the european solidarity whose absence is so much criticised by some.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i regret, however, the council's tendency to honour its commitments to countries in need which qualify for eusf assistance by calling in funds from existing programmes rather than by mobilising the additional resources provided for by the special instruments.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund was launched in 2002. it is designed to provide effective and flexible response capabilities to assist member states and candidate countries in the event of natural disasters. in 2014, romania, bulgaria and italy were hit by floods that took the form of regional disasters. many infrastructures have been damaged. the agricultural sector also suffered. direct damage was eur 340 million in romania, eur 79 million in bulgaria and eur 2.24 billion in italy. it is particularly in difficult times, and especially in the case of crises that are not caused by any fault of our own, that it is important to show solidarity and to support one another. i therefore support the use of the solidarity fund by romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, which were affected by floods in spring and summer 2014, summer 2014 and autumn 2014 respectively. the total amount of the intervention is eur 65,5 million and is covered by amending budget no 4/2015. i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, which are suffering from floods. as for romania, 30 of the country's 42 districts were affected by flooding in the spring. in summer, parts of the region of south-west oltenia were affected by floods and landslides which caused damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as to cultural heritage and private dwellings. bulgaria, on the other hand, suffered heavy summer rainfall which caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and private property as well as to the agricultural sector in the severozapaden region. finally, five regions in north-west italy, including tuscany, were hit by floods and landslides in the summer, causing considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and private property, the agricultural sector and the environment, and claiming 11 lives.
in writing. ‒ we have approved the commission's proposal to grant bulgaria, italy and romania €66.5 million of aid financed by the european union solidarity fund. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training and development of staff and the purchase of equipment and tools for the management of the training and development of staff. in the context of the economic crisis, the mobilisation of these funds is a strong gesture of european solidarity. this is commendable, but it is not enough. we need to go further in our response to these types of natural disasters. we need to review our flood prevention plans, as well as our actions to mitigate the effects of climate change. the answer lies in integrated disaster management systems, faster and more efficient information exchange and strengthened cross-border crisis management. the european union has a real added value in coordinating these efforts, and it must make it known.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on draft amending budget no 4/2015 on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. this intervention from the european union solidarity fund, amounting to eur 66 million, covers 4 flood cases in romania twice, in bulgaria and in italy. in romania, the 2014 floods caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, private housing and agriculture. bulgaria was hit by heavy rains and flooding between late july and early august 2015. these rains caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, homes and private property. in italy, much of the north-west has been affected by recurrent periods of severe weather which have caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and private property. in order to be able to help these countries affected by severe floods, the 2015 budget had to be amended by increasing the solidarity fund by eur 66 505 850, and that has been done.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on mobilisation of the solidarity fund. however, i deplore in general the tendency of the council to honour its commitments to countries in need which qualify for eusf assistance by applying for funds from existing programmes rather than by mobilising the additional resources provided for by the special instruments.
in writing. ‒ so far, it has sometimes been difficult to get tickets for crossborder travel, especially if you want to use different modes of transport, such as train, bus or ferry. in the digital age, we should be able to create a more integrated ticket. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. member states should establish, by 2020, updated national timetable and fare information systems based on open interfaces linking the travel data of regional and local national timetables of public transport to be carried by private and public undertakings. however, if significant progress is not made in establishing integrated, interoperable, multimodal, cross-border ticketing systems by 2020, the commission should set minimum rules and a timetable. the aim is to make these services available to transport companies, travel planning service providers and consumers by 2024, at the latest. i welcome this resolution because the ease and convenience of buying tickets through integrated ticketing systems makes public transport more attractive to more passengers.
in writing. ‒ transport policy in europe faces major challenges. in addition to the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and environmental impact, there are traffic congestion problems, such as traffic jams and other traffic problems. the provision of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel across the union can make a significant contribution to addressing these challenges, as these services facilitate the mobility and movement of union citizens, help to promote the transition to public transport, or contribute to better integration of transport modes and more efficient use of existing infrastructure. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to take initiatives to promote these ticketing and planning services.
in writing. i voted for this report because it makes it easier to travel around europe. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the system of multi-modal ticketing is not overlapping. with a single ticket, drawn up via an interactive website with up-to-date travel information, travel will be smoother. the travel sector is being asked to take concrete measures before european regulations are imposed.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of persons within the european area is a fundamental principle of the union. however, today there is still a long way to go to travel safely within the union. that is why i supported the adoption of the koch report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. the objective 22 of the commission's 2011 white paper 'roadmap for a single european transport area' is to enable multimodal travel through smart scheduling, online booking and ticketing systems. transport policy is one of the major challenges in europe from both an environmental and traffic congestion point of view. in 2012, 72.2% of passengers used the car while only 8.2% travelled by bus and 6.5% by train. while most passengers continue to prefer individual transport, the establishment of information, planning and ticketing services across the union would allow travellers to find the solution best suited to their needs, to book and pay for it online, and to complete their journey with a single ticket, irrespective of the transport modes used.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, i voted in plenary on the own-initiative report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. the aim is to establish a comprehensive information system for consumers on the different modes of transport (air, road, rail and sea) at european level in the long term, in order to offer a multimodal and cross-border, non-discontinuous door-to-door solution. the report calls on member states to improve their national information systems on timetables and fares and to implement intelligent real-time information systems by 2020 at the latest. the text adopted also sets 2024 as the deadline for launching a cross-border networking of national timetable and tariff information systems with the aim of developing multimodal and cross-border route calculators in the long term. parliament also called on the european commission to take the necessary steps if no substantial progress is made by 2020 and to draw up a charter of passenger rights covering all modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ intermodal travel, i.e. moving easily across borders using different modes of transport (train, tram, bus, etc.) is a concept we support. we are aware of the difficulties in that regard, including national ticketing websites with information available only in a foreign local language. however, the fact that the difficulties have to be solved by means of a single ticket or e-platform cannot be justified in terms of cost. the report is full of such unrealistic proposals (disproportionate liability of small carriers for missed connecting long-haul flights, advanced digital real-time systems in buses in rural areas...). however, we do believe that regional and national transport companies should bundle their timetables at national level and make them available as open data to companies working on integrated platforms. google maps, for example, shows the door-to-door route at a glance, including for cross-border public transport, as long as it has access to the journey timetables. the nva delegation therefore, in line with the position of its ecr group, merely abstained. this is a signal that the european commission should focus on non-legislative action to support the relevant sectors rather than to weaken them.
in writing. ‒ i voted for my colleague's text. the transport policy in europe faces major challenges. in addition to the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and environmental impact, there are traffic congestion problems, such as traffic jams and other traffic problems. the provision of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel across the union can make a significant contribution to solving these problems.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on tax rulings of the member states was set up in february 2015 to provide information on all tax rulings of the member states and to examine ways to end unfair tax practices and combat tax evasion in the european union. the committee therefore seeks to ensure transparency in tax rulings. parliament initially appointed the committee for six months. however, in order to avoid leaving any questions unanswered on this important and complex subject, his mandate has been extended, which i very much welcome.
in writing. ‒ it was necessary to extend the term of the special committee on taxation by a few months in order to have sufficient time to finalise the work in progress. it is important to use all the levers and information available to move the lines and put an end to a massive tax evasion that deprives the public authorities of significant revenues at a time when citizens are hard hit by austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ on the advice of our experts from the socialist and democratic group, i followed my colleagues and voted in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect.
in writing. ‒ the efsi investment fund is a large-scale project to re-ignite the economic engine in eu countries. the aim is to attract private investment through the juncker fund. in reality, it will turn out to be a regular keynesian public fund, financing massive investments with taxpayers' money. this fund provides citizens with a lifeline. it is not just a question of €16 billion in guarantees, which the citizens must cough up. the efsi texts clearly state that public and semi-public partners are also encouraged to use the fund extensively for expensive and risky public investments. the cost to taxpayers will therefore be much higher than the initial 16 billion guarantees. that seems to be something that almost everyone, whether they want to or not, overlooks. it is noble that some are trying to save what can be saved by trying to keep money from, say, horizon 2020, money for research and development, out of the efsi. however: if the house is on fire, there's little point in trying to save furniture. i therefore oppose this megalomaniacal juncker fund and all those who agree with the logic behind it.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was created as part of the european commission's investment plan. the plan is expected to generate eur 315 billion in future investment. the efsi is designed to counter the investment bottleneck in europe and to contribute to the creation of growth and jobs. the budgetary adjustment shall provide the efsi with the necessary instruments to fulfil its objectives.
in writing. ‒ this is the first budgetary amendment to feed the efsi, which must be implemented as soon as possible in order to promote growth and employment. i voted in favour of this amending budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget, which aims to transpose the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature, in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments, and to provide for the reallocation of eur 1.36 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. while i am very pleased that an agreement on the efsi was quickly reached thanks to the willingness of all the institutions to implement it as soon as possible, i regret the negative impact on horizon 2020 and interconnection in europe given the importance of these programmes for jobs and growth in europe. however, i welcome the fact that an additional amount of eur 1 billion over the commission's initial proposal will be financed from the global mff commitment margin, thus reducing the amount to be redeployed from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ at the previous plenary, the european parliament adopted by a large majority the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, a cornerstone of the junker fund, thus providing europe with the means to encourage a timid recovery in growth. today's vote, although less emblematic than the vote on the legislative proposal, is no less important. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. initially, the commission proposed a budget cut of €6 billion on the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and the connecting europe facility to free up funds for the guarantee. parliament has ensured that this amount is reduced to eur 5 billion. the annual budgetary procedure will enable us to continue to defend these programmes against any budget cuts in the coming years. the plan is now operational. it is time to act and ensure that the juncker plan demonstrates its added value in boosting growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 in order to adopt the draft budget as presented by the commission and thus to implement the european fund for strategic investments as quickly as possible. i am pleased that agreement was reached quickly between all the institutions on this fund. since the 2008 financial crisis, both public and private investment has remained abnormally low in the european union. we therefore need a plan to boost investment to put europe back on the path to sustainable and inclusive growth. unfortunately, i must still deplore the redeployment from the connecting europe facility (cef) and horizon 2020. these programmes are of great importance for employment and growth. finally, i support the idea that investments in research and transport will help to boost growth, competitiveness and employment, and achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the draft amending budget. i am, however, deeply concerned about the significant reductions in commitments proposed in draft amending budget no 1 to the 2015 general budget.
in writing. ‒ i have mixed feelings when reading this report on the impact of mass migration on the eu budget. it is good to see that the rapporteur is aware of the seriousness of the situation and has the courage to write literally that migration can be costly. for years, it was politically unthinkable that this painful truth would ever be proclaimed. it is now important to act on this knowledge, and that is where the problem lies. this report emphasizes the importance of frontex and europol, which is progress in itself, but only if frontex is used to restrict immigration rather than facilitate it. this document goes far too far and does not touch the heart of the matter, namely that the whole schengen treaty should be revised and that member states should therefore be given the freedom to carry out targeted border controls again. the whole of the eu's migration policy has turned into a nightmare. the member states must therefore be able to respond ad rem to the influx of fortune seekers coming to our countries.
in writing. ‒ almost daily we hear of the tragedies of refugees in the mediterranean and of hundreds of deaths off the coast of lampedusa. it is time for the eu to provide the necessary means to prevent such tragedies in the long term. the eu is a strong defender of human rights. it should therefore do everything in its power to protect the lives of refugees and to prevent further tragedies. i therefore welcome the budgetary correction, even if further efforts will have to be made in the future.
in writing. ‒ this is a first step at budgetary level in relation to the issue of migration and the dramatic situation of migrants in the mediterranean. the increase of eur 75.7 million will allow the expansion of operations triton and poseidon, which are primarily intended to save lives at sea. i approved this proposal. however, even if these funds will increase the resources of europol, the european asylum support office and frontex, it is clear that these additional resources will be insufficient to cope with the magnitude of migratory trends, whether it is to save lives, to effectively combat traffickers or to scale up development and protection programmes for north africa.
in writing. ‒ by approving an additional €69.6 million for the budgets of frontex, europol and the european asylum support office, parliament is providing a first response to the most serious migration crisis europe has faced since the end of the second world war. the budget for operation triton (border surveillance) will be tripled from €2.9 million to €9 million per month, but europe will have to propose more concrete measures to stem this massive influx. it is necessary, in particular, to make frontex a genuine border protection agency, to develop a humanitarian visa system which does not force migrants to rely on criminal networks, and to establish a genuine community asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget no 5 to the 2015 budget which the european parliament approved on 7 july in strasbourg and which provides for measures to deal with migratory pressures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. an amount of eur 89 million in commitment appropriations and eur 76,6 million in payment appropriations is provided to finance the additional needs for migration measures. as part of these amounts can be financed through unused funds, the financial burden is actually eur 75,8 million in commitments and there is no need to provide for fresh money.
in writing. - i voted for it, of course. however, i am alarmed by the low amounts of the increases proposed in draft amending budget no 5/2015, which do not correspond to the real needs in view of the current crisis in the mediterranean which is likely to worsen further.
in writing. ‒ the milk quota scheme, which expired on 31 march 2015, presents major challenges for the european milk sector. the fluctuations in prices in particular are a serious problem for dairy farmers. i welcome this resolution, since it calls for regulatory instruments for crisis situations and for the strengthening of the market observatory.
in writing. ‒ the dairy sector was particularly affected by the end of milk quotas on 31 march and the impact of the russian embargo. this report, which i have approved, calls on the commission to implement a series of measures to counter these negative effects. it called on the commission to introduce new financing possibilities for the sector through eib aid, to revise intervention prices and to implement new regulatory measures to stabilise supply and prices paid to producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nicholson report, which is the european parliament's response to the commission's report on the evolution of the situation on the dairy market and the implementation of the 'milk package'. this is in the context of the end of the milk quota system since 31 march 2015. the new european approach is of course fraught with uncertainties and no one can predict whether its flagship measure, which is the possibility for farmers to collectively negotiate supply contracts with dairies, will be sufficient to guarantee a viable future for producers. in belgium, for example, this agreement is not mandatory and consists of a code of good practice signed by 98% of processors and the three main agricultural organisations. among the sensible proposals is the facility for farmers to join producer organisations (po) which can collectively negotiate the terms of contracts, including the price of raw milk. the negotiating power of milk producers is enhanced in a rather favourable environment, with the average price of milk in the european union rising to more than 40 ct/kg and consumer demand for milk products increasing.
in writing. ‒ the eu must ensure a better balance in the supply chain, introduce better tools against market disruption and help farmers find new outlets for their products, as called for by the european parliament in its adoption yesterday of a report on the milk and milk products sector. parliament called on the commission to intervene by introducing additional targeted market measures in the face of the crisis affecting national milk markets, as a result of the downward pressure on prices resulting from the lack of adequate crisis prevention instruments, a drop in world demand, global price volatility and the russian embargo. parliament regretted that the council had rejected its request for aid to producers who voluntarily reduced their production in the event of a serious crisis. parliament also called on the commission to implement more effective and realistic safety nets and to ensure that intervention prices (which are far too low) better reflect real production costs and real market prices and are better adapted to market changes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today took stock of the 'milk package', even though milk quotas have been abolished since 31 march. the socialist and radical meps have always opposed the end of milk quotas. for us, this was the system of public regulation of supply, which enabled both effective control of production, which was essential to maintain prices and incomes, and the maintenance of many family farms throughout the territory. unfortunately, during the cap reforms of 2003 and 2008, the right decided to liberalize the milk sector and put an end to milk quotas: since 31 march, nothing has stopped the movement towards geographical concentration of production in the territory. the most threatened are the small, medium-sized and isolated family farms.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the commission to work towards ensuring that european companies have fair access to public procurement markets in third countries. the report particularly emphasises the involvement of european smes, which i welcome, as they are still the largest and most important employers in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report firstly recalls the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) in economic development and job creation in the european union. however, it stresses the difficulties that european companies often encounter when participating in a ppp in a country outside the union. it therefore urged the commission to work, when negotiating trade and investment agreements with other countries, to remove the administrative, procedural and technical obstacles which prevent union companies, and smes in particular, from participating in ppps in third countries. i have approved this text, which is part of a desire to develop the union's enterprises and hence employment in a context of reciprocal trade with third countries.
philippe de backer (alde),in writing. – the eu is increasingly engaging with the private sector to promote growth and development in african countries. i support the need for better regulation on public-private partnerships, clear impact assessments and evaluation mechanisms. transparency and accountability are two very important concepts in this regard, and they need to be fully adhered to.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of the zahradil report which stresses the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) in developing countries. the plenary followed the recommendations of the committee on international trade, which advocated the development of ppps, drawing on european expertise in the field: the union dominates this market in the field of infrastructure, which accounts for more than 45% of the nominal value of ppps. the report highlights the positive experiences of ppps which have resulted in better project delivery, the possibility of financing long-term costs, and a more flexible and skilled management environment. the ppp has other advantages. at the heart of this partnership approach are the requirements of transparency and accountability, translated into english as 'accountability'. these are two requirements in today's economic world, marked by a reduction in public investment and a renewed approach to public management. this is a further reason for meps' support for the rise of public-private partnerships in developing countries, where they are often the only way to launch large-scale infrastructure projects.
in writing. - i voted for the text. recall the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) as a driver of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both within and outside the single market; it emphasises the strategic role of ppps in the modernisation of infrastructure, including energy, road, digital and water supply infrastructure. i would also like the commission to ensure that bodies supported by the european union, such as the european agency for small and medium-sized enterprises (easme) and the enterprise europe network (een), can also obtain and share with smes information on how to integrate ppps in third countries, and encourage the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in ppps in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the melo report gives a good picture of the situation in the fruit and vegetables sector and touches on a number of pain points. the total eu support is steadily increasing, as is the degree of organisation in the sector with the creation and expansion of producer organisations . this does not prevent the steady decline in production area, the concentration of most of the subsidy pool in a limited number of pos and the low use of resources relating to crisis prevention and management, training and research and experimental production. the russian boycott is not the fault of the sector, but it is a big victim of it. the commission is leaning back, however.
in writing. ‒ fruit and vegetable production is under enormous pressure today. the strong concentration of retail and discount chains enables them to play an increasingly important role in setting market prices. producers are also facing increasing competition from third country products. the only way to solve our structural problems is to strengthen the role of our producer organizations. i welcome the report adopted, because it proposes, among other things, that we should form larger associations of producer organizations to strengthen the bargaining power of farmers in the food supply chain. it also points out that well-functioning producer organisations can be seen as an aspect of increasing the attractiveness of agriculture for young people, which could help to reverse the unsustainable demographic trend in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which draws attention to the difficulties faced by fruit and vegetable producers who are struggling to earn a decent living, in particular because of unfair commercial practices and pressure from large distribution groups, and therefore calls on the commission to step up efforts to combat these practices by establishing clear european rules. it also aims to make producer organisations more attractive by simplifying rules, promoting research and innovation and providing more funding to encourage more farmers to participate. finally, as the russian embargo on exports from the union has seriously affected many european producers, the report calls for the community support measures to be maintained in place as long as necessary until the normal market situation is fully restored.
in writing. ‒ everyone knows the importance of the health advice "eat 5 fruits and vegetables a day". unfortunately, this is not the case, as teenagers consume on average only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily allowance of fruit and vegetables, while 22 million children in the european union are overweight. this lack of fruit and vegetable intake can be the cause of many chronic diseases. it is also a direct problem for the fruit and vegetable sectors, with a loss of production in recent years, accentuated by the economic crisis marked by an increase in the consumption of processed foods and the russian embargo on many products: apples and pears, as in belgium. this is why the clear message of support for the european fruit and vegetable sector delivered this afternoon is so important. the european union must redouble its efforts to ensure the viability and sustainability of the sector. the objective of a fair income for farmers cannot be achieved without effective action against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain and policies aimed at greater protection and better outlets for producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform for several reasons, firstly to ask the commission to set clear european standards to combat unfair practices and the pressure exerted by large-scale distribution on producers and their incomes, and secondly to ask for an increase in aid to producer organisations and the reintroduction of eu aid for investments by newly created organisations. i also ask the commission, by voting in favour of this report, to set up a mechanism for withdrawing products in the event of a crisis, in order to avoid serious losses for fruit and vegetable producers. finally, in this connection, i urge the commission to strengthen the aid schemes for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools. this will encourage young people to adopt a healthy, balanced diet.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr melo. i believe that the commission should redouble its efforts to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers. it makes little sense to invest resources in strengthening and creating po (a slow and difficult process) if the bargaining power in the food chain continues to be predominantly retailer-owned. moreover, since many member states are adopting national measures to address these problems, some coordination is necessary at union level in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. in any event, this issue will be dealt with more fully by the ep in a report to be prepared by our committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) in the coming weeks.
in writing. the european commission has announced that it will make the 2016 work programme a political document focusing on the main lines, the real priorities for 2016. that approach is a good one, at least if it sets the right priorities and is ambitious enough. and that may be where the shoe fits. the commission always says that the eu must be big in big things and small in small things. for me, this means that the eu must give priority to tackling the biggest problems, the problems facing eu citizens. this does not mean that social legislation is being abolished under the guise of reducing administrative burdens. problems that citizens are concerned about include social dumping, (youth) unemployment and tax evasion by multinationals. i therefore call on the commission to devote sufficient attention in the 2016 work programme to tackling these problems vigorously. the second report, on the implementation of the new rules, is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council by the end of the year. i hope that the commission will take this up in 2016 and not just study and evaluate it. the problems with the secondment directive are well known. it is time for action and solutions.
in writing. the implementation of this report will make a major step towards transparent operation of listed companies. this will be done without adding procedures or obligations which would place a burden on the undertakings concerned and without increasing their costs. this report is also consistent with our desire to reduce tax evasion and avoidance. the european parliament has indeed approved by a very large majority the principle of requiring multinational companies to file a country-by-country tax return which would fall within the public domain. the european union must play a leading role in drawing as many countries as possible into its wake. all available information and resources must be used to put an end to the massive tax evasion which is depriving the public authorities of substantial revenues at a time when citizens are being hit hard by austerity policies.
- i'm the reporter. thank you very much, mr president, commissioner, colleagues. i think all eyes are on the greek crisis this afternoon. the urgency of this case unfortunately pushes all other cases to the background. but unfortunately, global warming cannot wait. we must move forward in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions. with the introduction of this automatic correction mechanism (the market stability reserve or msr), we are - i am convinced - taking a very important step in the reform of our emissions trading system, which was almost overturned under the pressure of the economic crisis. i think we are saving the most important pillar of our european climate policy. the msr should provide a new stimulus to invest in energy efficiency and thus in lower emissions. we are taking an important first step towards achieving our ambition to reduce co2 emissions by 40 percent by 2030. this will fundamentally strengthen our credibility and our bargaining position at the crucial un climate conference in paris later this year. the reform we are now adopting proves that we can reconcile ambitious climate policy with economic growth and jobs. we are well aware that the transition to low-carbon production requires very significant investment. many european companies today have to compete with competitors from outside the european union who do not have to buy co2 emission allowances, and so there is indeed a risk of carbon leakage. the energy-intensive industrial sectors which are making great efforts to reduce co2 emissions and are subject to international competition must of course be guaranteed in the future that they will not be penalized if they want to increase their production - which we all want, of course, if economic growth picks up again. i would also like to add something in english: i 'm not ... what is more and this is often forgotten in this context, important derogations and important new initiatives have been agreed and are part of this decision initiatives that are specifically in favour of those member states with a gdp lower than the eu average. let me refer to three decisions in particular. first, the derogation for free allowances for the power sector will be continued for those member states. secondly, the new modernisation fund of approximately two billion euros will be created for additional investment in those member states. and thirdly, a solidarity mechanism will be created of which the revenues are to be invested and distributed among the less-than-90% average income countries, and this is all too often not mentioned in this debate and in this context. if all goes well, commissioner cañete will come forward next week with a new proposal for ets reform. the new proposal should of course also further refine the carbon leakage guarantees for the coming years. we are counting on the commissioner and have every confidence that he will come up with an ambitious and yet balanced proposal. finally, i would like to thank, first and foremost, commissioner cañete and the services of director-general delbeke for the excellent cooperation and the excellent proposals. i thank the latvian presidency, which is unfortunately not here. i would like to thank in particular ambassador stalmeistars for his very effective and also very pleasant leadership of this dossier. i thank all the shadow reporters, colleagues groote, duncan, gerbrandy, kyllönen, eickhout, evi and their team for the excellent cooperation. i also thank the envi chairman, mr la via, and the itre rapporteur, mr tajani, for the excellent cooperation, without which the work would never have been completed.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank all of you for this debate, which showed that we have reached a balanced compromise. now it is time to look forward. allow me to recall the broader context. an important milestone for the european union ets has been achieved. we can now turn this page and concentrate on our efforts to complete the architecture of the european union ets for the period after 2020. last year i committed here to translate the ets-related elements of the 2030 climate and energy policy framework into legislation swiftly after the market stability reserve (msr) had been agreed. i will keep my promise. it is our firm intention for the commission to present a legislative proposal on the revision of the european union ets next week, on 15 july. this proposal will constitute an important part of the work on the achievement of our resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy, which is a key political priority for the juncker commission. it will focus on the aspects on which the european leaders gave us their guidance in october 2014. firstly, free allocation to industry will be continued to ensure that sectors at genuine risk of carbon leakage will be adequately protected. secondly, the proposal will establish a modernisation fund for modernisation of the energy systems in lower—income member states. the option of free allocation of allowances to modernise electricity generation in the same member states will also be continued, but transparency will be considerably enhanced. finally, support for the development of low-carbon innovation will be continued through an innovation plan which, compared to the current ner300 facility, will see its scope extended to industrial innovation projects. given the variety of uses addressed in the future proposal, i expect a challenging, yet constructive, legislative debate. i sincerely hope that we will be able to continue the positive cooperation that we have been able to establish through the work on the market stability reserve. i am confident that we will be able to reach a good deal for the climate, for the competitiveness of european industry and for european citizens.
- i'm the reporter. i think we can say that the resolution before us, which we are going to vote on tomorrow, is not perfect. it can't be. the perfect and the ideal are often the opposite of the good or "the enemy of the good", as they say. we could have gone further, we could have made better decisions, but it is a compromise. i think we can say that this decision deserves the approval of this house, because it is indeed a major step forward in the fight against global warming. i also remember what mr girling said. those who have criticism, here in this house, there is nothing wrong with that. but then you expect alternatives to be on the table. i haven't heard any other options. it seems to me, therefore, that it is a little too easy to give criticism without substance. so i would say: i would like to give this motion for a resolution the benefit of the doubt tomorrow. i repeat that colleagues from poland and other member states too easily forget to mention that very important exceptions and also new initiatives and measures are envisaged to assist the so-called low-income countries. i am thinking of member states where, for example, the coal industry and coal-fired power generation are still important. the commissioner has just referred to an exception for the energy sector, to the modernization fund and to the solidarity fund. these are very important funds, containing billions of euros that can help those countries. the next step is next week. the commissioner has announced: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the work is not finished, of course. i suggest that we agree now that we are not going to be too defensive, that we are going to be forward-looking, ambitious, but also, as the commissioner rightly said, selective, that we are indeed putting in place safeguards for energy-intensive industry that is prone to carbon leakage, that we are going to help industry that cannot, for example, calculate the cost of electricity. finally, mr president, climate protection on the one hand and the promotion of jobs and the further development of industry here in europe on the other hand need not be enemies of each other.
in writing. i think we can be satisfied with the introduction of a mechanism that should help to restore the european emissions trading system (ets). however, too much optimism is not in order. now a first step is being taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the ets. the proposed stability mechanism, the so-called market stability reserve, will regulate the lack of interaction between supply and demand of allowances by gradually putting the large surplus of unused allowances into a reserve. but that cannot be a permanent solution. the emission allowances that are put into the reserve hang like a thundercloud over the market. if we want to boost green technology and end our fossil fuel addiction, we need a high carbon price. we cannot get there by simply introducing a reserve. the european commission will present a proposal next week on the rules of the ets beyond 2020. this revision will hopefully address the structural problems, such as the elimination of unused emission allowances and an end to the abundant free allowance giving. so the real fight is about to begin.
draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. as itre rapporteur for the 2016 budget, i continue to oppose the cuts to, among others, the successful horizon 2020 research programme for the funding of the juncker plan. i think the programme is a clear example of where europe can add value. flanders is one of europe's leading research and innovation centres, thanks in part to european support. i'm proud of that. i shall therefore continue to advocate the preservation of this aid. i can't tell you enough that we have to do this year after year. finally, i would like to stress that this procedure must not be misused to increase the european budget. the european union, like the member states, must also put its finger on the pulse of the world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to give my full support to the excellent report by our colleague, mr josé manuel fernandes. i particularly appreciate the very clear priority he gives to what he calls the three e's, which are actually growth and employment. my dear friends, as you well know, europe needs growth like bread, and it is in this context that i wholeheartedly support the expressed desire to ensure that the guarantee linked to the european fund for strategic investments is fed, while preserving as much as possible, as we have succeeded in doing, the funds provided for horizon 2020 and for the mechanism for interconnection in europe. i also support the commitment to work towards strengthening the resources allocated to migration policy and, in particular, in the immediate future, towards the fair distribution of asylum seekers between the member states. i would also like to say that it is a scandal that some member states, which are greedily pocketing the structural funds, are selfishly refusing any real solidarity in taking care of a few dozen asylum seekers. i also support the request made by our rapporteur to provide the necessary resources to finance the european agenda for security, which the commission has recently proposed. the terrorist threat is real and will remain so! to combat it, the european instruments, in particular europol, must be given the necessary means. more generally, and i am addressing the commission, we must put an end to the stupid system which mechanically depletes the agencies of resources without ever taking account of priorities or emergencies.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr claude moraes on his excellent work. i hope, despite what mr kirkhope has just said, that he will have a very large majority. in the present circumstances it is important that the european parliament expresses a strong and courageous position in favour of the security of european citizens. i say to my dear colleague, mrs sippel, that it is not fear that guides us, but responsibility. i therefore welcome - dare i say it - the establishment of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol, which i hope will be fully operational by 1 january 2016. i stress the need to provide europol with the financial means to carry out these additional tasks. i am asking for the mandatory entry of persons suspected of terrorism in the schengen information system and for the harmonisation of the criteria for reporting. i also ask all member states to arrange for their border guards to have access to the europol information system, which contains the names of thousands of suspected terrorists. i ask that any new european security tool must include binding mechanisms for sharing information and cooperation between member states, all of which, of course, must respect the fundamental rights of citizens and the principles of necessity, proportionality and legality. let me finally put this in perspective. you mentioned, commissioner, that the commission intends to organise a forum where all the actors will discuss the necessary strategy. this forum will provide information and that's a good thing. but who will implement it? i believe that in the field of internal security we should have a person with the same powers as the head of the union's external security. today, who really acts on behalf of the european union and the member states with twitter, google and facebook when it comes to discussing the removal of terrorist content? who is really responsible for the management of the schengen information system? who determines the strategic guidelines coordinating the action of the member states, the commission, the various agencies and services in the field of security? commissioner, i believe that to meet the threats we face, we must take decisions that will modernise our system. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i answer very clearly that i will talk to my friends. is that answer satisfactory?
the european union has also provided support to the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (unoda) in the implementation of the unoda. this operation tackled crime in 34 countries and led to over a thousand arrests across europe. this shows that cooperation between eu member states to fight organised crime is actually producing results. the security agenda recognises that eu agencies play a crucial role in facilitating such cross-border cooperation. it is essential that these institutions have the expertise and financial resources to operate efficiently. this afternoon we voted on the rubial report on draft amending budget no 5/2015, which asked the commission to analyse the financial impact of the migration agenda. the same exercise in the efficient spending of taxpayers' money must be done for the security agenda. threats, trends and priorities are constantly changing. it is therefore important that the commission takes this into account when setting priorities in budgeting. the commission has previously indicated that the use of the european internal security fund would be aligned with the priorities of the agenda. in this context, can the commission indicate whether or not it intends to evaluate the needs of this fund until 2020 in the context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i would first of all like to thank our colleague elly schlein for the work she has done and for taking account of the priorities of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we all know that tax evasion is a real scourge. it causes a clear shortfall in the budgets of the states, as much money as could be spent on the vital needs of the entire population, namely social security, health care, employment, education, the economy or infrastructure. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has therefore focused on three priorities. firstly, we believe that we must strongly support the development of tax administrations in the countries concerned in order to collect fair and equitable taxes effectively. secondly, we should focus on increasing the tax base in developing countries, including through initiatives such as the cbcr, the beps project and the revision of double taxation conventions. thirdly, we could make eu aid conditional on respect for the principles of good governance in tax matters. i would like to conclude by stressing that the first step towards achieving these objectives must be to set an example at european level. i think that european institutions, such as the ebrd or the ecb, could avoid working with financial intermediaries housed in tax havens or unwilling to fight tax evasion. this would allow us to create an effective virtuous circle to combat this phenomenon.
i would like to welcome prime minister bettel to this hemisphere today. he has outlined an ambitious programme for the luxembourg presidency, with seven major priorities. i fear you will not get much of a summer holiday with the continuing crises we face. i am thinking of the greek crisis, which will be discussed at length in the next few minutes, but also of the migration crisis, which is perhaps the greatest challenge we are facing and will be facing in the coming years. to do so, you will need to have the necessary negotiating skills and abilities to effectively reach agreements and tackle the challenge. it is also crucial for my government and my group to conclude an effective pnr agreement so that we have a common framework to effectively protect people's data and to fight and win the fight against terrorism. mr. prime minister, another crisis is lurking on our eastern borders. we are very clear on that point. there is no place in europe for the kind of aggression we are seeing today in eastern ukraine. mr prime minister, we look forward to working with you on a number of important policy initiatives, such as the better regulation agenda, the negotiations on an eu-us trade agreement, the energy union, the digital single market and the pursuit of a global agreement at the major climate conference in paris. you will find in us an ally where you want to pursue reforms, but a constructive opponent where you do not. i will switch to english because i would like to say something about language. i take the opportunity to address you, mr president: i know you meet a lot of people and have a lot of meetings every day, and you don't always remember everything. let me just remind you of a promise you made back in 2012, as newly elected president of this chamber. you said you would allow catalan meps to speak the catalan language here in the plenary. it is the thirteenth most widely-spoken language in the eu, with more than 10 million speakers. well, their meps are still not allowed to speak catalan in this house, which is supposed to be open and democratic. that, mr schulz, is a shame and a democratic deficit. i urge you to think it over again and fulfill your promise.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i want first of all to support what mr weber and mr pittella said to mr tusk. i say to him that, at the moment, when there is such a crisis in europe, our europeans institutions have to be united – the european council and the european parliament – and, as you are invited here, you should also invite us to council meetings, and please do that for the extraordinary meetings as well. mr tsipras, welcome. you can see that you do not have to be afraid of the european parliament. you refused at first – i did not think that it could be true that such a big democrat as mr tsipras was afraid of a debate! – but you are here. i am pleased that you are here, because this is the first time that we have in fact discussed this with you in the european parliament. i do not think that there are any possible solutions in the case of greece, and in the case of the eurozone, if they do not have the backing of democracy and are not debated in a democracy and debated here in the european parliament. that is what we are doing today. but i have to tell you – and you started, and what you said is true – you said the greeks made enormous efforts, and that is true. but the problem is not there. it is that the greek political class did not do enough in the case of greece. that is the problem today. (applause)i have to tell you that i am angry because you are talking about reforms, but we never see concrete proposals for reforms. (applause)i am angry because we are in fact sleepwalking towards a grexit. we have already been sleepwalking for five years with the help and the support – do you hear them? – of the people of the extreme right at the end. not only have we been sleepwalking, but in recent months i have more the impression that we have been running towards a grexit. but it is not you and it not us who will pay the bill. it is going to be the ordinary greek citizens who are going to pay the bill of a grexit of 30-40%. (applause)so i have to tell you that if we want to avoid that, there is only one possible way, and you know very well what it is. the only possible way is that you come forward in the coming days – in the coming 48 hours – with a credible reform package. that does not mean you saying ‘yes, i want to end clientelism’ and so on. it means that you make a roadmap and a clear calendar (no intentions) with end dates of the different reforms we need desperately in greece. (applause)and let me tell you the five things you have to do – i am even ready to come to athens to discuss it with you, because i like a challenge! but what do you have to do? first, end the clientelistic system. you need to put on the table legislation for that that does not exist and not to apply clientelism yourself, because a few weeks ago 13 directors in the ministry of education had to be nominated, and by accident there were 12 from the syriza party. there was only one of them whose affiliation they do not know. (applause)that is the reality. you are using the system. you are falling into the trap which pasok also fell into. that was also the big party of change in greece after the colonels and which did nothing at all except use the clientelist system for years and years to its own advantage. you have to downsize the public sector. i know that is perhaps difficult for a leftist, but it has to be done, because there are 800 000 civil servants! that cannot work. (applause)you have to transform the public banks into a private banking sector. you have to open the markets and the professions for young people. we do not have legislation. put legislation on the table to open at least 10 professions which are still closed in your country. finally, let us propose ending the privileges in your country – the privileges of the ship-owners, the privilege of the military, the privilege of the orthodox church in your country... (applause and interjections from the floor)you like privilege – that is fine, they like privileges, but i do not! there is also the privilege of the greek islands. and let us not forget the privilege of the political parties in your country who receive loans and money every day from public banks which are in fact bankrupt. syriza, your party, also receives such money. what i ask you to do is put all this together in a credible package and put it on the table in the coming days. i am pretty sure that from the other side – from the european side – we are going to be ready to find a solution to that. we are going to find a solution to all these problems. but it has to be done in that way. you can do it because there has never been a prime minister in greece who had such a strong mandate as you. you even have a double mandate. you won the elections and you won the referendum. so you are in the position of being the only political leader in greece who can put an end to that system in greece. i have said to you that we also have a responsibility. in my opinion we have to make a debt redemption fund as fast as possible, and we have to do it as fast as possible in the council as well. but first things first: you need to come forward with your reform package. it is not a chicken or egg discussion. you have a choice, and that is my conclusion. the choice that you have is very simple. how do you want to be remembered? as an electoral accident who made his people poorer in his country? or will you not be remembered, mr tsipras, as a real revolutionary reformer in the tradition of trikoupis and venizelos? i am not talking about the venizelos of pasok, the new one; i am talking about the real venizelos, the big leader between the two world wars who modernised his country, a liberal who in fact modernised his administration. that is the choice to be made, and i know what your people want. eighty percent of your people want to stay in europe and in the eurozone. so, show what you can do now and show that you are a real leader and not a false prophet. do it! (loud and sustained applause)
mr tsipras, nationalism and patriotism are concepts which offer people security, a warm nest, a home. but at the same time it requires openness and an international outlook, otherwise you will be reduced to protectionism and navel-gazing. i note that the socialists in europe have become a lot of fearful nationalists, because everything that comes from greece and syriza is apparently defended. but that international outlook is lacking, because everything that comes from the european institutions is apparently bad. the greeks want to choose their own recipes. to be honest, i understand and respect that. but, mr tsipras, where is your openness? where's your international outlook? you claim to want to remain in the eurozone. prove that to us, too. are you prepared to take your share of the heavy reforms to get the greek economy back on track, or do you simply want out? the opportunity to present the evidence today and in the days ahead is yours.
in writing. it is high time to move forward and make decisions. there's a new european summit on greece on sunday night. we expect the greek government to put forward constructive proposals which will form the basis for a compromise. we are determined to avoid a grexit. the priority right now is to make a breakthrough. we are living in europe in far too turbulent a time to allow this matter to drag on any longer. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful substances and the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. all the eurozone countries must now be prepared to take difficult measures so that we can give full play to the economic recovery and offer a perspective to all fellow europeans looking for a job. i'm counting on this to happen.
rapporteur.– mr president, i know it is late, but i think this file is important enough to introduce its importance in one minute. i think this proposed decision proves that it is possible on the one hand to reconcile the reduction of emissions and on the other to secure the future of a flourishing energy-intensive industry in europe. it is a vital decision with regard to the paris conference in december. may i ask for your support and may i also thank the shadow rapporteurs and commissioners arias cañete and šefčovič for their very good cooperation on this long journey.
on june 26th, the evil struck in tunisia, in kuwait, in nigeria. the target and the victims of the terrorist attacks were again innocent: worshippers, tourists on the beach, civilians. apparently, they didn't fit the worldview that the perpetrators believed in. but we must not become accustomed to this kind of bloodshed and become numb to it. for a country like tunisia, this terror is a tragedy. the country was the seedbed of the arab spring years ago. the harvest seems negligible, the society more fragile than ever. in addition, by not having tourists, it loses its main source of income. tunisia is in dire need of a perspective, of a recruiting project. work and progress are the only remedy against hate preachers. the union can offer a perspective. europe must rally to a marshall plan that can revitalise regional cooperation and help the countries affected to escape the belt of instability. because the alternative is a new libya, hopelessly unmanageable and therefore a coveted bride in a perverted isis marriage.
the european parliament has in recent years had its hands full of countries that have silenced journalists, bloggers and human rights activists. in many countries, it has become considerably more difficult for civil society to play a role. human rights are in a gray area in many countries. for the eu, human rights are at the centre, as an important pillar of our story. i would like to congratulate the commission on its european human rights policy. the human rights dialogue was extended to 37 countries. that's good. that's good. the instrument for democracy and human rights also gave eu embassies a greater role. but the work is not finished, of course. we must also consider the shortcomings of our policies. the human rights dialogues need to be followed up more closely with verifiable and clear indicators. countries that make more efforts to reform should be better rewarded. the european human rights programmes must be made more visible and discussed in greater depth. this is important if we are to be even more successful in the future.
madam president, the digital single market still does not exist in europe. european consumers are still often denied access to certain digital services because of their location. it is not normal that less than 4% of all video-on-demand content is guaranteed to be accessible across borders. consumers must have greater access to services from other member states, wherever they are. it is imperative to define more clearly and more completely the rights of consumers in the context of copyright. i welcome the proposal for an exception for education and libraries, which will allow a wider audience to access digital content. we want access to culture for everyone, including in the digital world. this is a balance between consumer rights and the necessary protection of copyright, which guarantees diversity. this is a wealth, and moreover a cultural one, which must be preserved.
i should like to begin by congratulating mr grzyb on his report. like him, i am also a member of the board of the efd. i am therefore very enthusiastic about the extension of the mandate area to countries just outside the neighbourhood. although not part of this neighbourhood, the edf has shown in recent years that it can play an important role in countries where the space for civil society is extremely limited. for example, we see that the efd in ukraine has been able to assist small local media partners in their coverage of the euromaidan movement in kiev. as a former international journalist, i know that the efd is a tool for helping human rights activists, journalists and bloggers. in countries like turkey, russia, egypt, azerbaijan, and so on, the room for manoeuvre of such independent media is still under pressure. in the countries of the neighbourhood and beyond, the european union is today the object of a propaganda war directed by the kremlin. the edf can play an important role in countering this.
mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to update the text, since the elections in burundi have taken place. i therefore propose that the words 'is seriously concerned' be replaced by 'condemns'.
in writing. ‒ promoting free trade between eu countries, but also with the us, is a good thing. after all, economics does not have to be a zero-sum game where one party loses and the other party wins. it can be a win-win. but ttip is an example of backroom politics. a gigantic treaty is being negotiated above the heads of the citizens and the consequences are unknown. the european commission believes that ttip will benefit the european economy, but the commission's analyses often lack a time horizon and sound econometric models. the american tufts university is already forecasting a loss of 450,000 jobs in the european union, and it is not alone. academicians of the british royal economic society say of this: "ideology obscures reality", he said. apart from the arguments relating to public health, the environment, isds and transparency, it is already clear what lies ahead. at the micro level, small and mediumsized enterprises will be the losers of ttip. at the macro level, the northern member states in particular will suffer from the disadvantages of this agreement. as if the monetary union with its unprecedented north-south transfers were not enough!
in writing. ‒ after a thorough examination of the matter, i feel that my initial feeling that i cannot support ttip has been reinforced. first of all, i deeply regret that parliamentary control - one of the most important powers of this house - is being left out of the negotiations. the fact that we members are only given a limited and incomplete view of the negotiating texts is an unacceptable democratic deficit. i am also categorically opposed to the use of extraordinary investor-state dispute settlement (isds) procedures. indeed, there are no compelling reasons why an isds procedure between advanced judicial systems is necessary. that is why i have tabled an amendment explicitly rejecting the inclusion of isds in ttip. finally, i have economic concerns. the commission's study shows that the additional growth forecast of 0.5% is de facto a very optimistic scenario and will not have its full effect until 2027. until then, and counting down to a single year, we would have an average growth of only 0.041 percentage points per year. i have therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the ps's message was and will remain very clear: - no to the isds mechanism, because the european and american legal systems are perfectly equipped to ensure the protection of investments; - no to the privatisation of the public service. we demand the total and unconditional preservation of public services of general interest and reject the negative lists of liberalisation of services;-no to social and environmental standards which are neither ambitious nor binding;-no to regulatory cooperation, this mechanism which consists of making multinationals and other industrial lobbies a quasi-co-legislator and which leads to the lowering in the short, medium and long term of our european standards (social, environmental, food safety, etc.);-no to the abandonment of the precautionary principle, data protection or cultural diversity. despite all our amendments, they have not been respected, particularly with regard to isds. we therefore voted against and will remain extremely vigilant as to the outcome of the negotiations. our socialist delegation will be unyielding in any event and will reject any free trade agreement which could endanger the general interest of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the us are the world's largest trading partners, trading €2 billion of goods and services each day. the trade and investment agreement is designed to stimulate growth and jobs. we call for a balanced agreement respecting the highest social, environmental and health standards. that is a basic condition for us. the main guideline is that companies on both sides can fight with the same weapons, and that we make sure that certain standards that are important to us are not affected. parliament must have the last word on what it can and cannot do. the commission has therefore proposed that the member states should establish a clear list of services which can compete in each other's markets, excluding services of general interest such as education and health care. we also send a clear signal to the negotiators: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. such a mechanism can only be provided that democracy is not compromised and that it is a step towards an international arbitration court in due course. we now expect the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of europe, to follow up on our recommendations. we'll be watching that closely.
philippe de backer (alde),in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on ttip because i am convinced that closing a comprehensive deal on free trade and investment with the us will bring large benefits for both consumers and businesses – not only from bringing down tariff barriers, but also by harmonising our standards. opening up trade will lead to lower prices for consumers, and increased export opportunities for our companies, and will certainly help our sme’s to export to the us. a strong dispute settlement mechanism should ensure that protection of companies – mainly sme’s – is provided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lange report on the transatlantic partnership (tpp). the idea of stimulating trade between the eu and the us by means of a treaty is a good one, which could have a positive impact on growth and hence on employment on both sides of the atlantic. at this stage, if i think it is useful to set some benchmarks, i see no reason to end the negotiations. i shall, however, retain my full freedom of vote when the final text is to be decided. i will not vote for the ptci if current european standards on health, environment or social protection are being or are likely to be challenged, if the regulatory cooperation body put in place in any way infringes the sovereignty of the european assemblies to issue their own standards, and if the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism does not at least meet the requirements of the compromise amendment which excludes the use of private arbitration.
in writing. the european parliament's ttip resolution contains the red lines that must be imposed on the negotiators. there is no doubt that ttip will have positive effects both geopolitically and economically. the desire to establish common standards with the united states is all too often wrongly criticized. however, this is a positive rather than a negative factor. the world is changing, that's a fact. but europe too often takes its power for granted. but the rapid rise of new world powers is a direct competitor. we need to create a bloc that shares the same values and standards. if we fall behind by slowing our global anchoring, others like china and india will do it for us and eventually dictate their standards on the international stage. if we do not strengthen our standards with the united states today, with whom can we do so tomorrow? only together will we be strong enough to maintain our standards on a global scale and avoid a race to the bottom.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, like 436 other meps, i took responsibility by voting in favour of the lange resolution calling for the continuation of the ttip negotiations. this vote confirms the vote of 23 may 2013, when a large majority of the european parliament had already said yes to the opening of the negotiations. but let us be clear: today's debate is not about a yes or no to ttip, but about making our recommendations, our concerns and our red lines clear to our american partner. the european union shares the same values as the united states, but approaches are very different in certain areas: audiovisual, agriculture and food, social protection and services of general interest. the lange resolution incorporated these fundamental differences which the possibility of an agreement tomorrow cannot erase. without succumbing to the demonization of certain parts of europe and of certain political groups, such as those in wallonia and brussels, the european parliament has, on the contrary, sent a message of hope: it hears the concerns expressed by the two million citizens who signed the petition on ttip and it responds to them by strictly marking the negotiations but not by insulting the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the transatlantic treaty because, in my view, it did not offer sufficient guarantees as regards compliance with european standards. in addition, a compromise amendment was adopted which advocates the introduction of public instruments, although it does not completely close the door to possible interference by private companies in the settlement of disputes between them and a state. while i am not opposed to the principle of negotiation with the united states, nor to the market economy, provided that it is socially regulated, nor to free trade, provided that it is fair, i am in favour of a strong europe, capable of negotiating on an equal footing with the other world powers, and which is a full-fledged actor and partner in a multipolar world. i am convinced that the european union cannot be reduced to the extension of an economic market dependent on the united states. the priority must be to strengthen our unity and to establish genuine economic and social governance to boost investment and employment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted a resolution on the free trade agreement between europe and the united states (fta). this resolution is not binding, but it was intended to have two main objectives: firstly, to show the citizens that we defend their interests and take their concerns seriously and, secondly, to send a clear political message to the commission that trade is not just for the interests of multinationals. despite all the amendments tabled to strengthen it, this resolution is still half-way through because it gives no guarantees to the citizens and sends a blurred message to the commission. that is why we voted against it. we have at least two years to correct the shot.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement, which will form the largest free trade area in the world, is of exceptional importance. that is why the european position must be crystal clear. the eu has developed a whole range of standards to protect its people from arbitrariness and blind profit-making. the european people are attached to these achievements, as the public consultation carried out by the commission has shown. in it, the overwhelming majority of europeans say they do not want an isds procedure. the compromise resolution on the table today already meets our criticisms in many respects. it even states that the isds procedure should be replaced. however, the text in question does not guarantee that isds will disappear. the creation of a new type of investment court can be postponed, allowing the isds procedure to continue indefinitely in theory. we must send a clear signal as a parliament that we do not want private courts to be able to overturn democratically adopted legislation merely to secure their profits. we require citizens to abide by the rules. well, citizens also demand that investors follow the rules. i support these citizens and vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in july 2013, croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. it is the second country of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia to join the eu, after slovenia. this protocol is an important, albeit formal, step towards long-term peace in the balkan region. i hope very much that the peace process will continue throughout the entire balkan region.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to approve a protocol adapting the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to take account of croatia's accession to the union. i voted in favour of this.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, like other western balkan countries, was selected as a potential candidate for eu membership at the thessaloniki european summit in 2003. however, the european project's breathlessness and the absence of real prospects in the european union, despite the thessaloniki declaration, open up space for manoeuvre, especially for russia, which is looking not only at greece but also at all the balkan countries. it was necessary to send a positive political signal to the yugoslav republic of macedonia and beyond the balkans. the balkans require an active policy in accordance with european criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, following the recommendations of the committee on foreign affairs. it is related to the return to normalcy in skopje, the capital of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as the four main political parties are about to finalize an agreement ending the political crisis in the country. the role played by commissioner hahn and some members of the european parliament in the process of resolving this crisis is to be welcomed. the holding of elections on 24 april 2016 by a new government and the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate the issue of interception of communications, which is at the root of the political disagreement, are all elements that play in favor of a stabilization of the political situation in macedonia. the country must now implement the required reforms if it is to achieve further euro-atlantic integration.
in writing. ‒ by voting on this report, the european parliament gives its approval to the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. today, the president of parliament is responsible for conveying parliament's position to the council, the commission, and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union
in writing. ‒ in july 2013, croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. it is the second country of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia to join the eu, after slovenia. this protocol is an important, if only formal, step towards long-term peace in the balkan region. i hope very much that the peace process will continue throughout the entire balkan region.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to approve a protocol adapting the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia to take account of croatia's accession to the union. i voted in favour of this.
in writing. in june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. this is an initiative that deserves our full attention at a time when russia is increasingly looking to the balkans to extend its sphere of influence, not hesitating to exploit the uncertainties about serbia's european future. russian policy in the balkans, especially in serbia, is being conducted in conjunction with regional energy investments such as purchases of power plants and refineries, etc. therefore, any action taken by europe, in accordance with european criteria and values, which shows the interest of the union in the balkan countries is positive.
in writing. ‒ by voting on this report, the european parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. the president of parliament is now responsible for conveying parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of serbia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ in 2001, the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation was concluded for the first time with the government of india. this agreement was renewed in 2010 for a further five years. the agreement also promoted cooperation in the fields of nutrition and solar research. i support the extension of the agreement with india and hope that this cooperation will bear further fruit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which approves the renewal of the 2002 agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
philippe de backer (alde),in writing. – the eu is a leading region in terms of research and innovation. it is important that we maintain and even improve this position. in an ever more globalised world, more and more knowledge and expertise is being built up in developing countries, such as india. for the eu it is crucial that we keep in touch with developments abroad, that we can tap into the knowledge created elsewhere and keep close contacts with researchers across the globe.
in writing. the european union and the republic of india have a long and successful history together. relations have been maintained for almost 50 years and many agreements have been signed in areas such as peace, sustainable development and cultural exchange. since 2005, a scientific and technological cooperation agreement has also been binding on both parties with a view to establishing enhanced cooperation in technological research and development activities. these privileged relations take the form of exchanges of information, joint research and development programmes and visits and exchanges of researchers. as a key player on the international scene, the european union must extend and strengthen its links with its privileged partners and that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. a few years ago, a special strategic partnership was established between the european union and india, a continent with a population of almost 1.3 billion. already in the sixth research programme, closer cooperation had emerged in key areas relating to the information society, transport, energy, biotechnology, the galileo system and space. the adoption of the new research and innovation programme, horizon 2020, is an opportunity for europe to strengthen this strategic partnership with the country which will be the world's fastest growing economy in 2015, barring an accident, with 8% growth. european space know-how, for example, will be able to perfectly match the indian excellence that was achieved in 2014 with the launch of its mangalyan science spacecraft into orbit around the planet mars. india has become the second nation after the us to achieve such a feat. cooperation with india may give europe a glimpse of the stars.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, the european parliament gave its approval to the renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and india. the president of parliament is now responsible for conveying parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ the faroe islands are an autonomous part of denmark, but not part of the eu. the eu has already signed other agreements (fisheries agreements and free trade agreements) with the faroe islands in the past. this association shall enable the faroe islands to participate in the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. the eu and the faroe islands can support their competitiveness through this association and also promote their scientific excellence. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which approves the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
philippe de backer (alde),in writing. – the eu is a world leader when it comes to research and innovation. horizon 2020 is the flagship programme aimed at securing the eu’s competitiveness. the agreement will give the faroe islands full access to the horizon 2020 programme, on equal footing with member states. in return, the faroes will financially contribute to the horizon 2020 budget. we have to make sure that we keep our region on the cutting edge of research and innovation, and to associate other countries with the horizon 2020 programme is a way of doing so.
in writing. the faroe islands have decided to contribute to the common objectives of the entire scientific and technological community. the advantage of such an agreement lies in the great opportunities it offers to research institutes, universities and companies in this country, since it covers both basic and applied research. horizon 2020 covers the entire value chain of research and innovation. any agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is a further step towards the knowledge economy in europe, which aims in particular to improve the well-being of all of us.
in writing. ‒ i voted, as did almost all meps, in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. the objective is to associate the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020). so of course this small archipelago in northern europe, which is part of the kingdom of denmark and is situated about halfway between iceland and norway, will be only a very small beneficiary of european research policy. the latter has a substantial multiannual budget of €80 billion, of which more than €15 billion is foreseen for the first two years. it is still questionable what the union's interest is in signing such an agreement with a territory with a population of 50 000 inhabitants, unless it includes future partnerships to exploit better the hydroelectric resources and possible oil and gas reserves.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, the european parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the faroe islands. the president of parliament is now responsible for conveying parliament's position to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ this report provides good practice, for example on the remuneration policy for managers, explaining how it serves the long-term interests of the company and setting clear criteria for the allocation of fixed and variable components of remuneration, including all bonuses and benefits in any form. in this context, share value should not be a primary factor in the financial performance criteria and share-based remuneration should not be the main component of the variable remuneration of senior management. however, i have abstained on the proposed obligation for large and listed companies to disclose information on profits, taxes paid and state aid received, broken down by member state, as i question the effectiveness of this proposal. the first reading is not yet complete, as the european parliament is seeking to reach a compromise on the final version of the law through negotiations with the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report will make a major step towards transparent operation of listed companies. this will be done without adding any procedures or obligations which would increase the burden on the undertakings concerned or their costs. this report is also consistent with our desire to reduce tax evasion and avoidance. the european union must play a leading role in drawing as many countries as possible into its wake.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it represents a strong compromise between the main groups of the european parliament. more importantly, the report avoids the tsunami of unnecessarily detailed regulations which was initially being proposed by the socialist rapporteur. europe needs simplified rules and a common market that functions more effectively than today. we need to provide business owners and entrepreneurs the possibility to use more of their time on running and developing their businesses, rather than dealing with bureaucracy. i believe this report is important if europe is to address the roots of the financial crisis and corporate governance shortcomings. the report aims to contribute to long-term shareholder engagement. it calls for more transparency on internal business transactions which could possibly jeopardise the company, but protecting at the same time business sensitive information. i specifically welcome the flexibility clauses of the text and the comply or explain approach, leaving enough leeway for the management boards of companies.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the compromise that led to this resolution because it aims to increase transparency and encourage long-term shareholder commitment to companies. this text puts an end to the disparity of legislation which has existed up to now. at present, 13 member states allow shareholders to have a say on remuneration policy. fifteen eu countries communicate on remuneration policy and eleven require the publication of directors' remuneration on an individual basis. europe needs simplified, harmonised and transparent rules, which should help to steer businesses and investors towards long-term decision-making and will also make it possible to combat tax evasion and fraud more effectively. in addition, by requiring large and listed companies to publish country-by-country information on revenues, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received, the text should help to address some of the shortcomings in corporate governance and address the root causes of the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ after long and bitter negotiations between the political groups and thanks to the compromise reached, the european parliament supported the cofferati report encouraging the long-term involvement of shareholders in the project of listed companies, rather than speculation. the financial crisis has exposed certain corporate governance deficiencies in listed companies, including insufficient long-term shareholder commitment and a lack of transparency. thanks to the fight of my political group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the compromise text adopted today strikes the right balance between full transparency where there is a real benefit to shareholders and other stakeholders, and the protection of sensitive information of companies, while guaranteeing sufficient room for manoeuvre to the boards of directors of companies. for the single market to work better, europe needs simplified rules. we must provide the opportunity for employers and entrepreneurs to devote more of their time to running and developing their businesses, rather than to bureaucracy. the text adopted by meps this afternoon goes in that direction.
in writing. ‒ at its july plenary, the european parliament voted in favour of a country-by-country tax return for multinationals. i fully supported this measure which aims to oblige multinational companies to be more transparent in their taxation vis-à-vis the general public. two elements seem particularly important to me: 1) parliament requires large companies to publish once a year a report detailing the following information country by country: list and purpose of all legal entities owned by them, number of employees, turnover, profit (or loss) before tax, taxes paid, public subsidies received; 2) parliament also requires these large companies to provide once a year the essential elements and information of tax returns (which has been much discussed following the luxleaks case), again on a country-by-country basis. it is now up to the council of the european union to take a position, but it cannot ignore a proposal voted by such a large majority (556 for, 67 against and 87 abstentions).
in writing. - i voted for it. at present, too many companies are overly focused on satisfying demands for high short-term profits and returns. in order to solve, at least partially, these problems, we wanted to give minority shareholders, and in particular institutional investors, a more transparent, manageable and influential role in corporate governance. the idea is that if investors are more committed and more long-term oriented in their commitment, companies will give higher priority to long-term concerns. this new focus will in turn benefit the end-consumers of institutional investors and asset managers, businesses and society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment and use of a market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the measures. this surplus is estimated at 2 billion. this has not been able to create a strong incentive for investment in low-emission technologies.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal to create a market stability reserve, as this is a structural reform which will introduce rules in the ets directive to govern market fluctuations and in particular the supply of allowances. the council stressed in october 2014 that this would be the main instrument to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction target. i approved this report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the market stability reserve compromise because i believe the ets system did not deliver what it was expected to do. carbon prices are too low and do not offer a sufficient incentive for companies to invest in more carbon-efficient techniques. at the same time we have to prevent carbon leakage by safeguarding companies that are price takers on the global markets from additional costs. the innovation fund should also support companies in making the move to more carbon-efficient technologies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this afternoon the report by ivo belet on the creation and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system. behind this barbaric headline is a matter of the utmost importance: the use of a market instrument to reduce co2 emissions. and there is a lot to be done, partly because the carbon market is not working well, tainted by the mistakes of the beginning: surplus free allocation of carbon quotas and the inability to stabilize the price of carbon so that it is an incentive to invest in clean technologies. in view of this, it was essential that the european parliament support the commission's proposal to create a market stability reserve, in particular by playing on the supply of allowances, and by setting aside 900 million emission allowances. this is a good way to clean up the market, to tackle the problem of the surplus of allowances, currently estimated at over 2 billion, and thus to maintain the course the union has set itself: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the vote in parliament on wednesday will pave the way for structural reform of the eu emissions trading system (ets) by creating an operational market stability reserve as of 1 january 2019. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. this is therefore a first step towards the longer-term reform of the ets that the european commission is preparing for the post-2020 period (fourth ets trading period) with a proposal expected on 15 july. the ball is now in the court of the eu council, which will formally adopt the text (amending directive 2003/87/ec) next september.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text of my colleague ivo belet. an efficient and reformed emissions trading system (ets) with a market stabilisation tool, as proposed by the commission, will be the main instrument of the european union to achieve this greenhouse gas emission reduction target, as indicated in the conclusions of the european council of 23 october 2014.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive put to the vote puts an end to the possibility of excluding seafarers from the application of certain directives relating to labour law (information and consultation of workers, collective redundancies, european works councils, etc.). i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the fisheries sector is a major employer in europe. the most recent figures show that almost 150 000 jobs have been created. these encouraging prospects should not make us forget the need to ensure safe and fair working conditions for all europeans, including seafarers. the aim of the directive is to improve living and working conditions on board vessels and to exploit the potential of innovation in the maritime sector in order to make it more attractive, particularly for young people who are hard hit by unemployment. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament supported, by a very large majority (642 votes in favour, 38 against and 24 abstentions), the morin-chartier report amending five directives on workers' rights, in order to improve the protection of seafarers in eu labour legislation. in general, eu labour law applies to workers in all sectors. however, today there are several directives which allow member states to exclude seafarers from certain provisions relating to the protection of workers. this inevitably leads to unequal treatment of these workers across europe and has repercussions on competition in the shipping and fisheries sectors. the aim of this directive is to align the rights of workers in the sector with those of workers on land in terms of equal pay for equal work, without distinction of nationality, place of residence, race, sex, sexual orientation, disability or age. the proposal also aims to increase the number of jobs in the maritime sector and to make working conditions more attractive to encourage young europeans to take up a maritime career at a time when the sector is experiencing a real decline.
in writing. ‒ it was abnormal that workers in the maritime sector, better known as 'seafarers', were excluded or could be excluded from the scope of several european directives on labour law. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs elisabeth morin-chartier, which is in line with the european commission's legislative proposal to improve the working conditions of these people. we must put an end to the exclusionary possibilities which penalise seafarers in relation to a significant part of european labour law. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 624 meps voting in favour of the text (38 against and 24 abstentions). this result shows the injustice experienced by workers in the maritime sector in recent years.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states, while taking into account the specificities of this sector of activity. the proposal for a directive therefore revises five previously adopted directives which excluded seafarers from their scope. the european commission wanted to point out that the exclusions for seafarers in these five directives were not part of the commission's initial proposals, but were the result of negotiations with the other partners. i share the rapporteur's view and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ switzerland has excellent research institutions, making it an interesting partner for horizon 2020 projects. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation approving the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the latter to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in iter activities conducted by fusion for energy (15369/2014).
in writing. swiss research actors (universities, companies, individuals) will participate in eu research and technological development programmes, the largest of which is horizon 2020. the latter represents the largest european investment and research programme. i support this measure because it will be beneficial for development, create jobs and support innovation, which is one of the key instruments of the economy.
in writing. ‒ seven months after the formal signing of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the swiss confederation under the italian presidency by minister stefania giannini and the european commissioner for research, carlos moedas, the european parliament gave its favourable opinion on the agreement this afternoon. it provides for the association of the swiss country to horizon 2020 the eu framework programme for research and innovation and to euratom, the eu research and training programme, as well as participation in iter activities. the scale of this scientific cooperation is a good illustration of the importance of the eu-switzerland relationship and its long standing. the first agreement on nuclear fusion, for example, was signed on 14 september 1978. the helvetas now want to be part of the iter international fusion energy project, which was concluded by euratom on 21 november 2006. another sign of the european authorities' confidence in switzerland's neighbour was that in 2004 it was granted the right to be represented on the steering committees of the specific programmes and on various steering committees, an advantage for participating in the implementation of current research programmes.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, the european parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with switzerland. the president of the european parliament is now responsible for communicating parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to the framework programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020, and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ since the crisis, many people have been unemployed. youth unemployment in the eu is over 20%. european solutions are needed to solve this problem in the long term. these guidelines for employment policy are also reflected in the europe 2020 strategy. employment policy is listed as one of the priorities for further boosting eu growth and overcoming the consequences of the crisis once and for all. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains several positive recommendations, namely:- the creation of sustainable and quality jobs for all (socio-economic security, adequate wages, decent working conditions, social protection, gender equality, vocational training, etc.); - convergence of working conditions through the top; - the fight against poverty, etc. these are the priorities which must guide the union's policies if we are to get out of the blind austerity and regain the confidence of the citizens.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states are to regard economic policies and the promotion of employment as matters of common concern and to coordinate their action within the council. access to meaningful employment for all citizens of the union is a prerequisite not only for their individual fulfilment but also for the return of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as a federalist, i am deeply convinced that closer cooperation between the member states in an increasing number of areas will help to revive a europe which is still too often the sum of its national interests.
in writing. today, parliament gave its consent to a council decision on guidelines for member states' employment policies in 2015. the eight guidelines proposed by the commission include stimulating investment, removing obstacles to employment and stimulating demand and improving the supply of jobs. emphasis is also placed on combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities. member states are called upon to ensure better access for women to the labour market, to promote entrepreneurship among young people and to combat discrimination in the labour market, in particular discrimination against people with disabilities or older workers. the text also stresses the importance of education and the prevention of early school leaving, as well as adult training programmes. improving the match between demand and supply of jobs is crucial to optimise the functioning of the labour market. employment, the fight against poverty and education are politically intrinsically linked issues which must be considered and implemented together.
in writing. ‒ every year at the same time, since 2005, the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states are proposed by the commission and approved by the council. 2015 is no exception and each capital received an opinion presenting an overview of national employment policies and the common objectives to be achieved. some member states, such as belgium under the government of charles michel, are doing well, a trend confirmed by the oecd which stated in its oecd360 report that "belgium is doing well, particularly with a gross domestic product above the average, which is important for well-being". other member states, not just greece, are struggling to initiate the structural reforms needed to boost growth and reduce unemployment: nearly 24 million people were unemployed in the union in january 2015, including 18 million in the euro area alone. it is unworthy of european society. all efforts in the years ahead must be directed towards one single objective: the access or return to employment of citizens of working age.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines were first adopted in 2010 to support the europe 2020 strategy. while these guidelines remained stable between 2010 and 2014, the commission proposed a set of new guidelines for member states' employment policies for 2015. these new guidelines should contribute to achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the european parliament, in voting in favour of the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, calls on the european union to support the creation of quality jobs. as a supporter of a socially regulated market economy, i advocate a reduction in precarious employment, underemployment, undeclared work and zero-hour contracts. in this report, the european parliament also recommends that member states, in accordance with national practice, implement a minimum wage commensurate with the socioeconomic situation of the country. this is a possible measure to combat poverty. that is one of the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by our colleague the rapporteur on this matter. particular efforts should be made to increase the employment of workers with very low levels of education or qualifications and those who are not able to acquire training or skills quickly, and to reduce large-scale and long-term unemployment, which is steadily increasing, with particular attention to regions lagging behind.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund was launched in 2006. it is designed to help workers who have been made unemployed by the negative effects of globalisation. in 2014, broadcom announced that it would close its production facilities in finland. a total of 568 employees were subsequently dismissed. i support the request of the finnish government to use the european globalisation adjustment fund. the measures made possible by this are intended to help workers find their way back into the labour market in the long term.
in writing. ‒ broadcom communications finland, a wholesale company based in finland, had to lay off 568 people as a result of the economic crisis and global trade restructuring. i have of course approved this intervention by the egf which will help to reconvert these dismissed workers.
in writing. finland is currently facing recurrent redundancies in the telecommunications sector, due to increased global competition in this area. recently, 563 people lost their jobs at broadcom communications finland; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. the fund helps redundant workers to take up new employment opportunities with a view to rapid reintegration into the labour market. supporting sustainable employment is essential. by financing vocational guidance and preparation measures, training and retraining measures, measures to promote entrepreneurship, wage subsidies and various types of allowances, the fund is a response to the economic crisis, demonstrating the union's solidarity.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to get back on track with economic growth. the n-va meps therefore abstained on this dossier.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies will only worsen the unemployment situation in the region of northern ostrobothnia (part of the nuts level fi1a region), where 424 of the 568 redundancies took place. the unemployment rate in this region is still a few percentage points above the national average. we have shown our solidarity and voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i supported, sets out a number of demands for the negotiations on the 2016 budget. in my view, it is important that the cuts in horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (cef) are kept to a minimum in order to feed the efsi fund, as good infrastructure and the promotion of research and development are crucial to keeping europe fit for the future. the youth employment initiative must also be stepped up to tackle the high level of youth unemployment in europe and more funds must be allocated to tackle the refugee crisis. the loss of confidence in the eu, caused by the many defaults, must also be countered in a lasting way. these points must now be negotiated between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the motion for a resolution on the 2016 budget mandate for the trilogue, in which parliament recalls the priorities for creating quality jobs, promoting investment and growth. however, vigilance must be maintained to ensure that these priorities are transversally embedded in the union's policies, so that austerity is replaced by a genuine recovery policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i particularly appreciate the clear priority it gives to stimulating growth and employment. europe needs growth like bread. it is in this context that i wholeheartedly support the expressed desire to ensure that the guarantee from the european fund for strategic investments is fed, while preserving as much as possible the resources foreseen for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. i also support the commitment to work towards strengthening the resources to be allocated to migration policy, in particular, in the immediate future, the fair distribution of asylum seekers between the member states. it is a scandal that some member states are greedily pocketing the structural funds and selfishly refusing to show solidarity in the care of asylum seekers. i also support the request made by our rapporteur to provide the necessary means to finance the european security agenda. the terrorist threat is real and it will last. to combat it, the european instruments, in particular europol, must be given the necessary means. more generally, we must put an end to the stupid system which wants to mechanically reduce the resources of the agencies without regard to priorities or emergencies.
in writing. ‒ in adopting the report on the european parliament's mandate for the interinstitutional negotiations on the draft budget for 2016, parliament welcomes the overall draft proposed by the european commission: €153.5 billion in commitment appropriations (including €4.5 billion from the 2014 budget) and €143.5 billion in payment appropriations. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. parliament stressed that these 'generally moderate' increases, which follow the path set by the multiannual financial framework and take account of inflation, 'are hardly an increase in real terms, which underlines the importance of the efficiency of expenditure'. parliament also welcomed the fact that, in addition to the duly expected increases in headings 3 (security and citizenship) and 4 (europe in the world), the commission is endeavouring to respond to the latest news events such as the crises in ukraine, syria and the mediterranean by responding to the security and migration needs of the union and the member states and by showing strong political will in the field of external action and budgetary commitment to countries of origin and transit. it's the most important.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2016 budget. it now remains for the commission to assess precisely the budgetary impact of the measures presented under the european migration programme and the european security programme as regards europol, and the additional tasks entailed by these measures, so that the budgetary authority can properly adapt europol's needs in terms of appropriations and human resources.
in writing. ‒ as n-va, we continue to oppose the cuts to, among other things, the successful horizon 2020 research programme for the funding of the juncker plan. the programme is one of the few examples where europe has a clear added value. flanders is one of the european leaders in research and innovation, not least thanks to european support, and we are proud of that. we therefore continue to call for this support to be safeguarded. as a delegation, we will do this again every year. we also want to emphasize that the procedure must not be abused to increase the european budget. the eu, like the member states, must put the cart before the horse. as these elements are not reflected in the report or are not reflected sufficiently, we, the n-va delegation, are voting against.
in writing. ‒ the commission expects an increase of 20 million jobs to be created by exploiting the potential of the green economy. i believe that the eu should make full use of this potential and therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which underlines that a transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can offer the opportunity to create new quality jobs while converting existing jobs into green jobs in almost all sectors and throughout the value chain. the report also calls for the introduction of social and environmental criteria in public procurement policies and for the reduction of employment burdens in favour of environmental taxation (without impact on the financing of social protection).
europe can achieve a new period of economic growth if it resolutely chooses to shift to a low-carbon and sustainable economy. a green economy offers solutions for the climate and the environment, but also for society. through structural change to a green growth economy, we can transform the existing traditional employment and create new job opportunities. a green transition will have a positive impact on employment. however, a number of processes need to be put in place to support and accelerate the transition to a green growth economy. without new skills, there are also no opportunities for high-quality new jobs. education is best prepared for this by closing the gap between the training it provides and the skills needed for the jobs of the future. for industry, high-quality innovation should prepare the economy for a low-carbon and energy-efficient future. particular attention should also be paid to smes, which are the main drivers of employment creation in europe. sme-oriented measures should aim to further stimulate innovative green entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission published its 'green jobs initiative: harnessing the job creation potential of the green economy', showing its unwavering interest in the eu's transition to a low-carbon economy. the european parliament responded this afternoon by adopting the jean lambert report which highlights the potential of the green economy in terms of job creation. in an internal working document from 2012, the commission had indeed gone a little too far when it boasted that "up to 20 million jobs could be created by 2020 in the green economy", but the ongoing economic and social crisis in europe no longer allows us to set such ambitious targets, but the trend is there. investing in the circular economy and renewable energy is seen as a matter of course, if not a necessity, for europe to get back on the path to sustainable growth and quality jobs quickly. the report also calls for a meeting of eu leaders at the end of 2016 to take advantage of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) to support the greener transition of our post-industrial economies.
in writing. ‒ through its europe 2020 strategy, the european union aims to develop a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. to do this, the eu has set itself five ambitious targets to be achieved by 2020. these include the target of 75 per cent of the population aged 20-64 having a job by 2020. to achieve this, europe is focusing on promoting sustainable and inclusive growth. between 2002 and 2011, an estimated 3 to 4.2 million green jobs were created. to continue along this path and to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, the report in question proposes concrete ways of making the most of the potential for green job creation. given the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth in order to create jobs, but also not to jeopardise the living conditions of future generations, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs lambert's text. while it is clear that the world of work is already being affected by major international trends, the eu's response has so far been limited. in order to ensure that we can maintain and develop employment opportunities and job creation, we need a comprehensive and joint response, from the political level down to basic training. time is running out, because we are now missing opportunities that are being seized in other parts of the world, and we are not fully preparing our workforce to deal with the challenges that we are already facing.
in writing. ‒ many developing countries lack the resources to provide sufficient public goods (education, infrastructure, etc.). the lack of public funding is due in no small part to the massive tax evasion and avoidance practices in the countries concerned. i support the proposed action plan to combat tax evasion and tax evasion in developing countries, so that european development aid can be stepped up in this area too.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an opportunity to address the issue of taxation in developing countries. tax evasion is a scourge that affects all countries of the world. these means of avoiding taxation by moving all or part of the assets or activities to another state, in an illegal, fraudulent or unfair manner, represent a significant lack of revenue for the state budget, revenue that could be allocated to vital needs for the entire population: social security, health care or education. tax revenues should contribute to strengthening public investment capacity in developing countries. it is important for these countries to raise fair and effective taxes to finance infrastructure, public services, health care and education. it is also an essential tool in the fight against poverty. this is why we must support the transfer of knowledge and skills to help develop their tax administrations. the oecd provides us with an effective example of good practice through its 'tax inspectors without frontiers' initiative.
in writing. national revenues are and will continue to be the main tool for financing sustainable development. the mobilisation of national revenues is a prerequisite for ending aid dependence and promoting universal access to public services. developing countries (ldcs) are rich in natural resources, but these resources generate only a small share of national income. although the share of national income in the gdp of the developing countries has increased in recent decades, it is still very low. in most countries, it is below the threshold below which governments have difficulty in financing basic public services (15%). it is essential to strengthen tax systems and to combat tax evasion and tax fraud in the developing countries. i welcome the adoption of the report on tax evasion and tax evasion. this is a strong message to the negotiators at the international conference on financing for development, because optimal taxation not only increases the resources available for development, but also strengthens good governance and consolidates the state by promoting the stability of governments' budgets and allowing them to take ownership of their policy choices.
in writing. ‒ ahead of the conference on financing for development in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, the european parliament adopted this afternoon an important and detailed report to support developing countries in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it is true that the lack of fair, efficient and transparent tax systems is often glaring in the developing countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. another benefit of good governance in the area of taxation is that it would enable many developing countries to move beyond their long-term dependence on foreign aid and to move in the opposite direction, where tax revenues would be reinvested in the consolidation of the state and public infrastructure. a new approach which will obviously require good european cooperation with the beneficiary countries, in terms of training sessions, expert missions or other forms of supporting activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european commission to present without delay an ambitious action plan on supporting developing countries in the fight against tax evasion and the establishment of fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems and urges that beneficial ownership information on companies, trusts and other institutions be made public in open formats. the text also calls on the european union and the member states to enforce the principle that multinational companies in all countries and sectors, whether listed or not, should make the publication of country-by-country information a standard and welcomes the adoption of an automatic exchange of information mechanism. the report also calls for a global definition of tax havens, the introduction of sanctions for operators who use them and the drawing up of a blacklist of countries.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of better mobilisation of domestic resources and the problems faced by developing countries in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, there is a need for a list of recommendations that parliament should support, in view of the international conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa and given the range of existing international initiatives to reform the global tax system. this includes: strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administrations; adopt solutions to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax evasion, such as an automatic information exchange mechanism and the publication of country-by-country information, taking into account the needs and constraints of developing countries; conduct a study at eu and member state level on the impact of tax policies on developing countries. the tax rights of source countries should be preserved in the negotiation of tax conventions and a genuinely intergovernmental body should be created in which developing countries can participate in an equal footing in the overall reform of existing international tax rules.
in writing. ‒ the global economy uses one and a half times the value of the planet's resources to produce and absorb waste worldwide. it is estimated that by the 1930's this amount will have reached the resources of two planets. europe is more dependent on imported resources than any other region in the world, and many resources would be depleted in a relatively short time. i welcome this report because it addresses this problem, among other things, and also because it points out that improving the use of resources could bring substantial net savings to businesses, public authorities and consumers in the union, estimated at eur 600 billion or 8% of annual turnover, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2·4%. in addition, increasing resource productivity by 30% by 2030 could generate almost 1% gdp growth and 2 million additional permanent jobs. resource efficiency therefore remains one of the most important components of sustainable living.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in favour of the transition to a circular economy. this approach is obviously based on a model that favours sustainable investments. the commission should rapidly present ambitious proposals on the circular economy to limit the environmental impact of the extraction, processing, production, use and disposal of raw materials. sustainable waste management, including recycling, is also essential. i am also of course in full support of the provision to ask the commission to set quantified targets for the reduction of food waste. the donation of foodstuffs must increase substantially within the union and the commission must create a favourable environment in this respect. i will continue to take initiatives in this area in my work as a member of parliament for wallonia.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resource efficiency report because i believe we have to make a change in the way we use our resources. as i also wrote in my report on green growth opportunities for smes, making the transition to a more efficient economy can lead to advantages for our businesses, in addition to the large environmental benefits that it will bring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the circular economy and recycling of waste. the european commission has withdrawn a legislative proposal on the circular economy from its 2015 work programme, but it is expected to come back with a proposal in the coming months. i am glad that parliament is seizing this momentum to adopt a text supporting ambitious measures such as a 30% increase in resource productivity and a gradual and binding reduction in landfilling. this is a good initiative and i hope that the commission will follow suit. belgium is the world champion in recycling, but other member states have a lot of room for improvement. i personally support in particular the call for the creation of conventions in the member states which would require large supermarkets to redistribute their sales to food associations. this provision seems obvious to me when you consider that in europe some 90 million tonnes of food are thrown away every year, while millions of people are dependent on food aid. i am sorry to say, however, that in some european countries food waste is not even a topic.
in writing. today, only 40 percent of solid waste is reused or recycled. the rest of the waste is still going to landfill or incineration. the circular economy offers a sustainable solution to the waste problem. unlike in the linear system, where raw materials are converted into products that are destroyed after a short lifetime, the circular economy aims to maximise products and raw materials and minimise value destruction. not only does this reduce the waste mountain, opting for a circular economy also means developing new opportunities for growth and jobs in europe. the european commission is talking about a 'boost' that will create up to 2 million new jobs by 2030. european companies and smes will also be less dependent on imports of raw materials in this economic system and thus strengthen their global competitiveness. the european commitment to a better environment and a sustainable economy is not without obligation. to achieve the economic and environmental objectives, investment is needed to modernise production processes and to produce better recyclable and sustainable products. a policy framework is required to support the businesses that are driving this transition to a circular economy.
in writing. ‒ the pietikäinen report is an important text in the work of the european parliament. it suggests a paradigm shift, that of moving from an economy designed for at least two centuries in a linear way, that is to say closely dependent on a line of production, consumption and exchange consisting of producing goods to consume them, then throwing them away, infinitely, to a circular economy. based on better exploitation of human or natural resources used and an expansion of capital invested, the circular economy is the appropriate response to the scarcity of resources in europe and the fact that 40% of the materials used in the european union are imported. to take the example of an irreplaceable everyday object, the smartphone: at the end of 2013, its life expectancy was estimated to be less than two years in europe, compared to eight years in india. however, the world is still not recycling enough of its highly polluting electronic waste: 80% of it ends up in landfills. it's not sustainable! it is therefore much more than the technology that needs to be changed, based in particular on the planned obsolescence of products, it is the whole economic model that needs to be revised in order to achieve a modular mobile telephone in the coming years!
in writing. ‒ the transition from a society of waste and resource waste - whether food, energy or raw materials - to a society of repair, reuse, recycling and resource efficiency is a necessity and a great opportunity for europe. a strong commitment to a circular economy will enable the union to reduce its dependence on imported resources, protect the environment, boost innovation and the competitiveness of its industry and create jobs. the text adopted urges the commission to submit new legislation based on binding targets for waste reduction and the progressive elimination of landfilling and a policy that promotes the decoupling of economic growth from resource use. the text also calls on the eu to achieve a sustainable production model by 2050 and to set binding targets for the reduction of waste generated by 2025. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the european parliament called for the creation of conventions in the member states under which the retail food sector would distribute unsold products to charitable associations.
in writing. ‒ each european citizen produces 5 tonnes of waste a year and consumes up to 14 tonnes of raw materials. we are consuming and producing more and more while the planet's resources are dwindling by the day. this must stop, or it will seriously handicap the lives of our children and grandchildren. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods. more efficient waste management and improved product durability must once again become european priorities. reuse, repair or transform: these are the three key words of the circular economy. without this, our society has no future.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 fukushima nuclear disaster has once again shown that, despite the latest technology and safety measures, a nuclear accident can never be ruled out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. we need pan-european strategies to be better prepared for such incidents. this includes clear provisions on maximum levels of radioactivity in food and feed. they can help to ensure that consumers are protected from contaminated food more quickly in the event of a nuclear emergency. for these reasons i support the report by mrs esther herranz garcía.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation supports the original proposal of the european commission and therefore votes against the parliament's position. in its opinion of 31 march 2015, the european parliament's committee on legal affairs clearly advocates the preservation of the euratom legal basis as proposed by the european commission. this is also consistent with other relevant legislation. the european parliament also wanted to change the legal basis for the rules on the protection of public health against radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. but the court of justice disagrees and has made it clear that the procedure laid down in articles 31 and 32 of the euratom treaty takes precedence over more general provisions of the tfeu when it comes to union measures for the protection of public health against radiation and radioactive contamination. the committee on legal affairs considers that, even under the legislation in question, a change in the legal basis would most likely result in the act being annulled if challenged before the court.
in writing. the chernobyl and fukushima disasters are well present in our memories. the chernobyl tragedy is not yet over. in ukraine, 29 years later, more than 6 to 7 million people in the contaminated areas are still affected by radiation. the radioactive threat in fukushima is still everywhere. however, due to governmental bans and controls, contamination of most agricultural and livestock products is below 10 to 20 becquerels. it was essential to revise existing european regulations on the permissible levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs in order to protect human health as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ the world has not been spared from nuclear disasters in recent decades, and everyone remembers the terrible images of the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. if life is slowly returning to the contaminated areas, it is of course essential that the public authorities provide "safety nets" to protect the local population in the first place. preventive measures include the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident. this is precisely the subject of the herranz garcia report voted on this afternoon by the members of the european parliament. i have of course voted in favour of this text which sets european permissible levels for foodstuffs for both marketing and export and import, as i have supported amendment no 56 tabled by the green group calling for a reduction by 10 of the permissible levels tolerated in animal feed in the event of radioactive contamination or, more seriously, of any type of nuclear accident in europe. if there is no zero risk, lowering the permissible thresholds for radioactive presence to the maximum is a public health imperative.
in writing. ‒ in general, the issue in this report was not so much the frequency of a particular food taken in isolation for a particular diet as the accumulation of doses from various sources, whether dietary or not. i have therefore been vigilant and demanding in ensuring a high level of protection of public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, but i also voted in favour of the rivasi (greens/efa) amendment, which was controversial.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a european capital markets union is intended to increase investment in the real economy, as a capital markets union will facilitate access to capital for smes and help to increase the diversification of sources of finance. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union is a european commission project to deepen and further integrate capital markets in the 28 eu member states. the european parliament has therefore decided to draw up a resolution to set out its priorities on the subject. its priorities are set out in seven action points: a new legal framework for economic policy coordination, a simplified and more targeted six-monthly process, an increase in the eu's investment capacity, the establishment of a fiscal capacity within the euro area, a single market, a new social pact and, finally, a more democratic institutional framework.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on building a capital markets union, which represents the democratic view from the european parliament on the cmu initiative. the cmu initiative is very important as its objective is to create much-needed growth and jobs in europe. the report recognises that we need to improve access to capital markets through new sources of funding and fill the funding gap especially for smes, while providing for an appropriate regulatory and supervisory framework geared to the needs of the real economy. at the same time it states that europe will have to play to its own strengths but that compatibility with international markets has to be guaranteed so that investment can also be attracted from abroad. the role of savers and investors in cmu was correctly identified as one of the priorities, as without them there will be no deeper or broader capital markets.
in writing. too often misled at the expense of multinationals, smes currently have very little access to credit. the proposal to consider the creation of a capital markets union (cmu) to improve access to capital markets, in particular through various sources of finance, therefore seems to me very interesting. i therefore fully support this measure, because i am convinced that it will lead to the development of smes, which will also contribute to job creation. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we must remain vigilant in the control of those capital markets which, as a reminder, were at the origin of the financial crisis. in addition, we must also ensure the control of the rating agencies, which, without wanting to throw a stone in the water, have their share of responsibility in the crisis of 2008.
in writing. ‒ on 26 february 2014, the european parliament stressed 'the need to improve access to capital markets through new sources of financing' in its resolution on the long-term financing of the european economy. the galtieri-balz text adopted this afternoon goes into more detail and sets out the priorities of meps on the construction of a capital markets union. the decade-long steady decline in investment in the real economy in europe needs to be addressed. the latter remains highly dependent on banks, which makes the economy vulnerable in the event of a tightening of bank credit, as is the case in the post-financial crisis period, with a perverse effect: the difficulty of access to credit for smes, even the most innovative, and therefore a direct consequence on job creation. in belgium, in 2014, almost 30% of small businesses did not obtain the bank financing they requested. this is why two types of reforms are needed: one to simplify the rules on equity financing, which are too burdensome for private companies, and the other to remove the barriers to access to finance for smes, the heart of european economic activity.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this report, i supported the european commission's pragmatic and proportionate approach to achieving a capital markets union (cmu) by 2019. the umc plan includes immediate initiatives including the revitalisation of a simple and transparent securitisation market which would help to alleviate bank balance sheets, the revision of the directive requiring companies wishing to raise capital to publish a standard prospectus and the amendment of the prudential rules on insurance ('solvency ii') to stimulate investment in infrastructure.
in writing. - i voted for the text. i am surprised, however, that the american example is mentioned so often. we call on the commission to develop a european approach to enhance the diversification of sources of financing and investment for european businesses, through a cmu based on the characteristics and interdependence of the european banking system and the capital markets landscape, while taking into account the specificities of the european business financing model and the need to develop non-bank sources of financing for growth, and to complement them with procedures allowing market operators to raise debt, equity and risk capital directly from the market. the commission should not necessarily rely on peer reviews with other courts. cultural differences should not be ignored. it will be necessary to formulate adequate responses to overcome them.
in writing. ‒ security threats have changed considerably in recent years. terrorism has taken many forms and now often plays a threatening role in cyberspace. many threats to european security are also due to other factors such as poverty, racism, homophobia, etc. in a globalised world, it is no longer possible for a single state to guarantee the security of its own country. the european countries must therefore work together, and for these reasons i welcome the resolutions adopted.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this motion for a resolution in which parliament welcomes the commission's european security agenda for 2015-2020. it highlights measures to combat terrorism, terrorist financing, radicalisation, crime and cybercrime in order to ensure the security of citizens. it also stressed the need to tackle the causes of crime (poverty, inequality, etc.) and called for a proper balance to be struck between prevention policy and repressive measures in order to preserve freedom, security and justice. it welcomed the special attention given by the programme to fundamental rights and, in particular, the commission's commitment to carry out a rigorous verification of any proposed security measure, not only with regard to the objectives to be achieved but also with regard to compliance with fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european security agenda. i think it is important that the european parliament expresses a strong and courageous position in favour of the safety of citizens. the european union is more necessary than ever, as member states are no longer able to deal with crossborder threats on their own. this resolution welcomes the creation of the europol counter-terrorism centre, which i hope will be effectively operational by 1 january 2016. it stressed the need to provide europol with the financial means necessary to carry out its additional tasks and called for the mandatory registration of persons suspected of terrorism in the sis (schengen information system) and the harmonisation of reporting criteria. i would have very much liked to see a call for a real european governance of the union's security. i believe that just as we have a person responsible for the external security of the union, we should also have someone responsible for internal security. unfortunately, this conviction was not included in the final text, although it was in the text voted in committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wanted to send a strong signal by adopting this afternoon the new european security agenda for 2015-2020, proposed by the commission last april. this programme responds to the major security challenges facing the european union. terrorism, radicalisation, organised crime and cybercrime are a growing threat to the european citizen. the recent attacks in france, denmark and also beyond our borders in tunisia and kuwait remind us of this. these attacks on the population, but also on our democratic values, have been coordinated on a scale that transcends national borders and should therefore encourage us to cooperate more closely. while the primary responsibility of any state is to ensure the safety of its citizens, the cross-border nature of this crime makes isolated efforts unsuccessful and clearly requires action at the level of the european union to build trust and facilitate cooperation, exchange of information and joint action. parliament will not compromise on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the text of this resolution condemns the measures of mass surveillance and the recording of innocent individuals and underlines the need for democratic control of security measures at national and european level. the text also regrets the absence of a community definition of national security, a flaw which allows the proposed or used legislative instruments to remain vague. the resolution also calls for a legislative initiative to amend the second generation schengen information system to create an alert for suspected terrorists. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the resolution also condemns any conflation of terrorism, immigration and islam, as well as the serious violations of human rights, illustrated in particular by the secret prisons of the cia in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution. it is important to recall the crucial importance of locating and stopping financial flows in the fight against terrorist networks and organised crime groups, in particular financial flows outside the swift network. i welcome the efforts to ensure fair and balanced participation in the us-led terrorist financing monitoring programme and reaffirm my commitment to this programme. the war must be fought at the financial level to deplete the terrorist resources.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is alarming. given the geostrategic importance of the country, the situation could also have serious consequences for the security of the eu and the stability of the middle east as a whole. the eu, as a champion of democracy and human rights, has a moral obligation in this crisis. thousands of people are on the run. we are on the verge of a catastrophic humanitarian crisis. i therefore support the position of the motion for a resolution and hope for a political solution soon, which should be achieved in cooperation with the un.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, which i have endorsed, urges all parties to put an immediate end to the use of violence and stresses that the european union has reaffirmed its commitment to continue supporting yemen and its people. parliament reiterated its full support for the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen and expressed its solidarity with its people. it stresses that there can be only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict and therefore urges all yemeni parties to work towards resolving their differences through dialogue, compromise and power-sharing, culminating in the formation of a government of national unity in order to restore peace, avoid economic and financial collapse and address the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution on yemen because the rapid deterioration of the political, security and humanitarian situation in that country is extremely worrying. i join in condemning the destabilising and violent unilateral actions by the houthis and military units loyal to former president saleh. i also deplore the fact that the air strikes by the saudi-led coalition and the naval blockade it has imposed on yemen have caused the deaths of thousands of people, created favourable conditions for the expansion of terrorist and extremist organisations and exacerbated an already critical humanitarian situation. i am convinced that there can be only a negotiated political solution to the conflict in yemen. that is why i support the request to invite all parties to resolve their differences through dialogue, compromise and power-sharing, leading to the formation of a government of national unity, the only one capable of restoring peace, avoiding economic and financial collapse, and dealing with the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. the current crisis in yemen is a major global concern. already subject to geographical, sectarian and tribal divisions, yemen has become a battleground for rivalry between aqap (al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula) and isis/daesh terrorist groups. the conflict in yemen has already left more than 3,000 dead, 10,000 wounded, 250,000 refugees and 335,000 internally displaced persons. it is taking on a regional dimension and poses serious risks to regional stability and peace in the world, in particular in the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle east. the european union and the international community must act decisively to end this conflict, which benefits terrorist groups such as aqap and is/daesh, whose terrorist acts are a threat to world peace.
in writing. ‒ meps are concerned about the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen and stress the urgency of ending the country's divisive conflict between government forces and the houthi shia rebellion. a climate of general insecurity and economic paralysis has set in, causing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. 20 million people are currently in need of humanitarian assistance, including nearly 9.4 million children. this situation also poses serious risks to the stability of the region, in particular with regard to the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle east. with a health system on the brink of collapse and the impending announcement of a fuel shortage, which is already severely limiting the delivery of humanitarian aid and will soon lead to water shortages, yemen is on the brink of collapse. parliament strongly condemned all the violence perpetrated in particular by the houthis but also by the saudi-led coalition and the terrorist attacks by daesh. the urgent need now is for a political dialogue and coordinated humanitarian action under the auspices of the un.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, which i voted for, the european parliament called for a truce to last until the end of ramadan, while at the same time calling on the eu and its member states to work within the united nations to ensure the country's supply of drinking water. this would be essential to pave the way for a potential peace process and offer the people a perspective by allowing them to improve agriculture, feed themselves and rebuild their country, the text stresses. indeed, according to reuters, fighting and aerial bombardment continued last week, despite the truce. the houthi shia rebels bombed residential areas of aden and continued to advance into the hadramaut desert. the arab coalition, led by saudi arabia, has carried out airstrikes on the capital, sanaa.
in writing. - i have of course spoken in favour of this resolution, of which i am a co-signer. i condemn all violence and attacks and threats of violence aimed at intimidating participants in the consultations organised with the good offices of the united nations. stress that the un-mediated inclusive political dialogue must be led by yemen in order to reach a consensus-based political solution that ends the crisis in yemen, in line with the gcc initiative and its implementation mechanism, the final report of the national dialogue conference, the peace and national partnership agreement and relevant un security council resolutions.
in writing. ‒ the middle east and north africa have been rocked by numerous crises for years. the increasing presence of terrorist organisations such as boko haram, al-shabaab, is and al-qaeda is compounding the problem. the situation in these regions is also crucial to the security situation in the eu and should not be underestimated or disregarded. the peaceful resolution of crises, the fight against radicalisation and the displacement of terrorist militias should therefore be given high priority in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the middle east and north africa face major security challenges, with the fight against isil currently the priority for these regions. in this regard, the report underlines the need for the eu to encourage support for a transition policy in tunisia, to support the development of civil societies and an inclusive security environment. the report also addresses the issue of women's rights in these regions. it stressed the importance of involving women's organisations and organisations working for gender equality in the consultation of civil society carried out within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. i supported that report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out a series of recommendations on what european action should be in several countries: tunisia, libya, iraq, syria, yemen. i am not able to give a precise list of the measures i support, as i am limited to 200 words. however, i would like to express my strong support for the calls for greater international support for the democratic transition and for the strengthening of the political and administrative capacities of the countries concerned, in order to be able to respond to the challenges posed by the social and economic crisis and the inadequate protection of human rights. another key element is the stabilisation of areas liberated from terrorist groups, in order to guarantee lasting security. as regards the israeli-palestinian conflict, i support the point of recalling the need to create the conditions for the resumption of peace negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority with a view to a final settlement of the conflict, based on the solution of two states living side by side in peace and security, within the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as the capital of both states.
in writing. the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa (mena) are having a devastating impact on the stability of the entire region. these developments pose serious risks to the security of union citizens and call for a concerted response by all member states. this response must be structured around three axes. firstly, it seems to me essential that the union should have a genuine common european defence, capable of responding quickly and effectively to the various crises at its borders. secondly, democratic consolidation, respect for fundamental rights and support for civil society in the nafo countries are key factors for the long-term stabilisation of the region. finally, deepening economic cooperation is an important means of reducing inequalities and would reduce the risk of radicalisation and withdrawal, particularly among young people, by promoting social progress. i support the coordinated implementation of these three aspects of our foreign policy, which will ultimately make the region safer and more sustainable in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament calls on the european union to develop a clear and long-term strategic line for its security action in the middle east and north africa (mena) region. the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya, as well as the escalation of tensions in the middle east and north africa, are a major source of destabilisation for the region. the consequences of the arab uprisings in the countries concerned, together with the complexity of the new situation and the imperative need to combat the 'islamic state' group and other terrorist organisations, require a review of the union's action. the european union must now speak with one voice in order to exist diplomatically and become a major political actor in this region. the middle east and north africa are experiencing geopolitical upheavals that could profoundly and unpredictably alter regional balances. the stability and security of the north-east asia region are fundamental to security, but also to the defence of the political and democratic values of the european union. the european parliament has set itself ambitious goals and proposed a new paradigm: that of genuine political cooperation which goes beyond economic issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european union and its member states to address the root causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation in the moan region in a comprehensive and ambitious manner, supports the international campaign against the islamic state group and welcomes the commitment of the coalition partners to work together on a common strategy. the text of the report also welcomes the allocation of €1 billion under the eu strategy 'elements for an eu regional strategy for syria and iraq and the threat posed by daesh', of which €400 million is directly allocated to humanitarian aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished colleague, mr peillon. the union and its member states must address the root causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation in the car region through a comprehensive and ambitious approach. i support the international campaign against the islamic state group and welcome the commitment of the coalition partners to work together on a common strategy. the participation of some eu member states in this international coalition is a good thing, both through military strikes and through logistical, financial and humanitarian participation. however, we welcome the increased involvement in all areas and stress the need for better coordination of the actions undertaken.
in writing. ‒ the neighbourhood policy aims to deepen relations and strengthen partnerships between the european union and its neighbouring countries. the resolution calls for a review of this policy in order to provide a rapid, flexible and adequate response to the situations on the ground, while proposing a strategic vision for the development of relations with neighbouring countries. this resolution, which i approved, also stresses support for democracy, judicial reform, good governance and institution building.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution calling for the eu to pursue a strategic, ambitious, forward-looking, coherent and targeted neighbourhood policy (npp) with the objectives of creating an area of prosperity, stability and security. i believe that the enp must above all be more political. support for democracy, the rule of law, good governance, state building, human rights and fundamental freedoms must be at the heart of the enp. moreover, as the security environment in the eu's neighbourhood is deteriorating, we need to be able to broaden the range of crisis management interventions, to help our neighbours build appropriate security structures and to promote joint security initiatives by neighbouring countries. finally, the enp must be seen in the context of an overall foreign policy. i am convinced that in the future the union should provide for sufficient funding in line with its enhanced commitment to its neighbourhood, in particular through the review of its external financing instruments.
in writing. since the events of 2011 (arab spring) and developments in the eastern neighbourhood, we have seen that the eu is not responding sufficiently to the rapidly changing circumstances in its neighbourhood. the maintenance of sustainable economic and political relations requires an urgent and thorough rethinking of the european neighbourhood policy. the eu must be able to anticipate new developments quickly and adequately. the enp must be diversified and tailor-made. the recent developments in the neighbouring countries have taught us that each neighbour has its own challenges and expectations. the enp must therefore be targeted and coherent. increased conditionality is also appropriate. cooperation with countries where real progress is being made in the areas of democratisation, strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights can be financially stimulated. at the same time, the eu must safeguard its own strategic interests in its relations with its neighbours, such as in the area of energy security. an effective neighbourhood policy also involves enhanced cooperation on trafficking in human beings and crossborder crime. the objective of the enp remains to achieve an area of prosperity, security and stability in the neighbourhood and to guarantee these objectives for the citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ meps stressed the importance and need to revise the european neighbourhood policy (enp), which is clearly no longer appropriate in view of the security problems at the eu's borders. events in the middle east and north africa in recent years have shown that the enp does not allow for a prompt and adequate response to difficult situations and rapidly evolving armed conflicts. these neighbouring countries face different problems and require specific responses. the enp should become a stronger, more effective, more targeted policy with a greater political and strategic dimension. its initial objectives of creating an area of prosperity, stability, security and good neighbourliness based on the common values and principles of the european union must remain the guarantors of this policy. the european parliament regrets the modest resources allocated by the european union for its action as a 'global partner' until 2020, which represents only 6% of the total budget. it also recalled that the enp is an essential component of the union's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls that the initial objective of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is to create an area of prosperity, stability, security and good neighbourliness based on the union's common values and principles, by providing support and incentives for in-depth structural reforms in neighbouring countries. that said, i am convinced that strengthening the partner countries' own development potential requires going far beyond the political dialogue that currently predominates in the enp and extending it to a social, economic and cultural dialogue that takes into account all political, social, ethnic and cultural differences.
in writing. ‒ a review of the european neighbourhood policy is important and necessary. the new enp should be able to provide a rapid, flexible and adequate response to situations on the ground, while offering an ambitious strategic vision for the development of relations with neighbouring countries in a bilateral and multilateral framework, in line with the commitment to promote the core values on which the enp is based.
in writing. ‒ i supported the non-binding resolution adopted by the european parliament on the modernisation of copyright law, as it points out, among other things, that future proposals for reform of eu copyright law in the digital age must ensure an appropriate balance of rights and interests between authors and consumers. on the other hand, it calls for better cross-border access to online content, without ignoring the importance of territorial licensing, especially for tv and film productions. as regards the right to produce and publish images and photographs of works (e.g. buildings or works of art) in public spaces, the current eu copyright law leaves it to the member states to introduce a 'freedom of panorama' clause into their national legislation. i have, however, rejected the proposal in the draft resolution that the commercial use of such images should always be subject to the prior consent of the authors or other authorised persons and i hope that the commission will put forward a proposal which will convince as many member states as possible to incorporate this 'freedom' into their own rules.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for copyright reform that includes fair remuneration for creators and increased protection for consumers, who must have access to culture and information. we have a very rich tradition of music, art and literature in the union, and the proposals for exceptions for education and libraries must allow the widest possible public to have access to them.
philippe de backer (alde),in writing. – the increasingly digital way in which we work nowadays demands current copyright to be updated. there must be a fair balance between the rights of the creator on the one hand and the rights of the consumer on the other. this report should guide the commission in its work when drafting the copyright reform, which is to be published in the autumn.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on copyright and related rights. as the commission will be presenting a proposal for copyright reform next december, it seemed to me very useful for the european parliament to be able to give its priorities and to call for a review of ad hoc legislation to better adapt it to the digital environment. several areas need to be explored: geoblocking and cross-border accessibility of copyright-protected services and content, portability of online services within the eu, ensuring fair remuneration for all categories of rights holders, especially with regard to the digital distribution of their works, etc. i also supported the amendment to strengthen the rights of journalists. as regards the panorama exception, i voted against paragraph 46. i believe that in the absence of a consensus solution it is better to preserve the present situation and to confirm that the member states have the possibility of introducing or not a so-called freedom of panorama clause in their legislation.
in writing. in europe, culture is the third largest source of employment in the european union, with just over 7 million jobs and a turnover of over eur 540 billion per year. creators, authors, publishers, and so on, are calling for vigilance. copyright is by no means a limit to innovation. on the contrary, it allows the authors, artists, etc. to live. it allows the creation and protection of the works of the spirit. the future of europe is knowledge, innovation and culture. by finally including culture in the europe 2020 strategy, we will be highlighting our most valuable assets. by promoting copyright, we will be able to secure europe's place in the global knowledge economy. as paul ricoeur said: "no culture is universal, but each one represents a gateway to the universal, a singular experience of humanity which, like language, exists only in the plural".
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament adopted the reda report on copyright by a large majority. a welcome initiative around controversial topics such as geo-blocking or the portability of rights in the digital age. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also voted in favour of the proposal to restrict the freedom of panorama, the exception to copyright which allows anyone to draw, photograph or film buildings or works of art in public space and to disseminate the result without having to obtain the prior authorisation of the right holders. today, each country legislates as it sees fit. belgium is one of the few countries to restrict this freedom. meps voted in favour of the proposal, but voted against the proposal. social network users will in principle be able to continue posting selfies in front of public buildings or artworks without being restricted by copyright. other amateur photographers will have to continue to rely on the tolerance of rights holders while awaiting european harmonization, which i wish to see in order to achieve freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ improvements are needed in copyright, for creators but also for consumers. we want this future reform to increase the coherence between european legislation, improve the digital single market and increase access to knowledge and information for all european citizens. at the moment, authors and users alike face real uncertainty in the acquisition of works. the european commission has published a communication on the digital single market, which aims to promote the digital single market and to promote the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ democracy is an important pillar of the eu. it is a moral value which we must always defend and defend. but democracy is not universally accepted in all parts of the world. it is all the more important to support this fund so that as many people as possible can benefit from the benefits of democracy. it is designed to help ngos, trade unions and other partners outside the eu to strengthen democracy and the rule of law in their countries. the events in ukraine and the arab world have shown the importance and value of the work of this fund.
in writing. ‒ the european democracy fund (edf) is an independent institution supported by member states and eu institutions that supports actors of democratic change in the european neighbourhood. the report, which i have approved, highlights the role and the positive results achieved by the emff since its recent creation, in particular by combating corruption, promoting non-violence, encouraging social and political participation and protecting the people and journalists who are working on the ground to ensure and accelerate the establishment of a democratic process.
the events of spring 2011 and the revolts in eastern europe have shown that requests for urgent assistance to political actors and civil society activists in the eu's neighbourhood have often been met with a lack of response. in response to this criticism, the european endowment for democracy was established in 2013. the efd aims to support new political actors and civil movements in critical and urgent circumstances, including repression by authorities. the edf has been strong in providing emergency assistance in crisis situations. for example, during the protests on euromaidan square, the equipment of kyiv post was destroyed. since efd was acting as a quick lender at that time, kyiv post was able to return to the air within three days. parliament called for continued attention to be paid to freedom of expression and freedom of the media. it also called on the edf to tackle the effects of social exclusion, to promote women's political participation and to develop new actors to support democracy. in order to support the proper functioning of the edf, it would be welcome if those member states which have not yet contributed also did so quickly.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament expressed its support for the initiatives led by the european fund for democracy (efd). this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, and other items, and other items the edf aims to promote european values of freedom and democracy in countries in transition and in societies struggling for democratisation, building on the european neighbourhood policy. the emff is not a public institution but has the status of a private foundation under belgian law. it is autonomous from the european union and complements the union's existing cooperation instruments. it operates through fast and flexible financing. the european parliament recommends that the member states of the emff contribute or increase their contributions and that belgium, the host country of the fund, at least consider the possibility of using tax revenue from the emff and its workers to finance emff projects. it is essential to ensure long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding.
in writing. ‒ as the european union's policy instrument for the promotion of human rights and support for democracy, the emff has proved particularly useful in recent years in addressing a wide range of political, economic and security issues in the countries of the union's southern and eastern neighbourhood. the emff is part of the union's new approach to human rights and democracy, following the events of the arab spring and the union's eastern neighbourhood. the report i voted for today stresses in particular the importance of guaranteeing long-term financing for the emff and of developing new and innovative means and instruments to support democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in passing, i would like to welcome the continued commitment of the emff to freedom of expression and association, freedom of the media, the establishment and strengthening of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, social and political pluralism, and to supporting the development of democratic regimes in the union's eastern and southern neighbourhoods.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in the republic of burundi is very worrying. democracy and human rights are being disregarded. violent crime is on the rise amid a crisis triggered by the announcement of the re-nomination of current president pierre nkurunziza. i welcome this motion for a resolution. i call on the bujumbara government to respect the cotonou agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the european union has an important role to play in the great lakes region in ensuring the implementation of the arusha agreements. the violations of human rights and democratic principles are unfortunately still present in burundi. the commission and the high representative must therefore take action such as freezing assets or revoking visas of those responsible for acts of violence, repression and serious human rights violations. at the same time we must also increase humanitarian aid and support for civil society. a lasting political solution requires an end to repression and violence and a return to dialogue between the burundian government, the opposition and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on burundi because, in the critical political and security context that this country is experiencing, the maintenance of the electoral calendar by the burundian government, despite widespread international condemnation and the opposition's boycott, is extremely worrying. it is clear that the electoral process was severely compromised by restrictions on media independence, excessive use of force against protesters, a climate of intimidation against opposition parties and civil society, and a lack of confidence in the electoral authorities. i condemn in the strongest terms the violence that continues in burundi. the essential elements of the cotonou agreement, including respect for fundamental rights and democratic principles, continue to be violated. it is inconceivable that these crimes go unpunished and that the perpetrators are not arrested. i therefore support the request to the commission to freeze funding to the burundian government and to redirect eu aid by increasing financial support to civil society and focusing on humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemned the decision of the burundian government to hold the presidential elections until 15 july. the issue, of course, is pierre nkurunziza's willingness to seek a third term, which is strictly excluded by the constitution. the outgoing president uses a legal twist to justify his guilty stubbornness, his first term would be the result of parliament and not elections. since then, the country has been in turmoil and protests have been widespread. shortly after a coup attempt by a former army general on 13 may, the burundian vice-president, several magistrates and members of the independent national electoral commission fled the country, seventeen officers were arrested and more than 70 people died in the violence. in this context, the electoral process is highly compromised: media muzzled, protests severely repressed, opposition suppressed, etc. the resolution calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the elections are held in a peaceful, credible, free and fair manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the decision of the burundian authorities to hold the presidential elections in july, which should have been postponed in view of the deteriorating political climate and the worsening humanitarian crisis. the text of the resolution calls for an immediate end to the violence, urges the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential elections and calls on all parties involved in the electoral process to honour their commitments under the arusha agreement, which restored peace to the country after years of civil war. the text also calls on all parties to resume dialogue and on the burundian authorities to involve all actors in the efforts required to create an enabling environment for the holding of peaceful, credible, free and fair elections. only through dialogue and consensus between the government, the opposition and civil society can a lasting solution be found. finally, the european parliament also called for the immediate lifting of restrictions on media and internet access, as legitimate elections cannot take place unless the media are able to exercise their rights and journalists are able to do their job without intimidation.
in writing. ‒ as the guarantor of the arusha agreements, the european union has a duty to act against the crimes committed in burundi. the resolution calls on the high representative for foreign affairs to punish those responsible for these acts of violence by banning their visas to the eu and freezing their assets in the member states. we also call for a reorientation of european aid by suspending all cooperation with the authorities and by strengthening our support for burundian civil society. i voted for this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ on 11 july 1995, in the midst of the bosnian war, europe witnessed an inhuman crime. the massacre of 8,000 bosniaks near srebrenica, despite the presence of the blue helmets, was a tragic event. this massacre has gone down in history as the most cruel war crime since the end of world war ii. today, 20 years after these atrocities, we commemorate the many victims in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this joint resolution in which the european parliament first of all pays tribute to all the victims of the srebrenica genocide and all the atrocities committed during the conflicts in the former yugoslavia, and states that it will do everything in its power to ensure that such acts cannot happen again. it highlights the role of political representatives and societal actors in bosnia and herzegovina in accepting the past and achieving a better future for all citizens of the country. parliament stressed the importance of the work of the icty and called for greater attention to be paid to war crimes trials at national level. it reaffirmed its commitment to the european perspective and to the accession process of all the western balkan countries and considered that regional cooperation and european integration were the best way to encourage reconciliation and to overcome hatred and divisions. it also expressed its support for civil society associations such as the association of mothers of the srebrenica and žepa enclaves for their central role in raising awareness and consolidating the foundations on which reconciliation between all citizens must be based.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the resolution on the commemoration of srebrenica. twenty years ago, on 11 july 1995, as the former yugoslavia was torn apart by war, srebrenica was the scene of the greatest war crime committed in europe since the second world war. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. parliament also reiterated its attachment to the prospect of accession of all the countries of the western balkans and recalled the role to be played by the union as a community built from the outset of the european integration process on peace, solidarity and reconciliation between peoples. at a time when extremism is again threatening our european society, it is vital to remember that tolerance must be defended every day and that the european union is, and must remain, first and foremost, a peacemaker both within and outside its borders.
in writing. ‒ in a resolution, we in the european parliament commemorated the senseless massacre of 8,000 men and boys 20 years ago in the bosnian town of srebrenica. those days in 1995 were among the darkest in european history since world war ii. even today, bereaved families try to find out what happened, but our only response to their deep grief is an admission of collective failure. the unspeakable has happened. an unimaginable act of genocide that disgraces not the existence of one ethnic group but of all humanity. i would like to express my full support to the families who are remembering the tragedy that has befallen them. today, the balkans must move forward with europe as an ally. the right way is the way of democracy, but also the way of recognition and reconciliation. finally, it is our responsibility to continually deconstruct the populism and extremism that are the seeds of conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of my colleagues' resolution on srebrenica. we hereby pay tribute to all the victims of the atrocities committed during the conflicts in the former yugoslavia, and we express our condolences to the families of the victims and assure them of our solidarity. the timely prevention and effective repression of genocide and crimes against humanity should be among the european union's top priorities.
author. mr president, in cambodia the ruling party is seeking to restrict association by means of a controversial law. the cambodian people's party, which has been handing out the sheets since 1979, wants to oblige all ngos and trade unions to register and to report extensively on their activities and finances. prime minister hun sen fears that ngos and trade unions are being used as a cover for foreign powers to destabilize the regime. the civil society is of course not in favour of this initiative. it does not deny the need for legislation for the approximately 5 000 ngos, but does not take issue with the fact that the government has drafted the bill in secret and without public debate and wants to run a draught through parliament. meanwhile, civil society is mobilizing in droves. the day before yesterday, hundreds of concerned citizens attended an information session on the legislation. they are naturally afraid of a reduction in democratic achievements. we call on the government to review the two bills in consultation with civil society. we are glad that we can put a stop to them with this resolution.
on 30 june, hundreds of activists, workers and trade unionists tried to march through the streets of phnom penh to show their indignation at the new version of the draft law on non-governmental organisations and associations, which was promulgated by the cambodian government. we can only join them, of course, and i, in turn, wish to express my outrage at this bill which goes totally against freedom of expression. it is true that the rights of workers are also increasingly under threat. i remember that nine years ago, on behalf of the european parliament, i led a mission to cambodia to check, even then, whether that country was making and still making progress in respecting human rights. as mr corrao has just said, we are the main donor to cambodia, which is very interested in this relationship with the european union, because we are giving it money for development policy, among other things. wouldn't it be time to re-deploy a mission to see if this country is still on the right track or not? is it not time to weigh up the fact that we are giving them aid? should we not go there to make things right or at least help to put things back in the right direction?
the president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). large groups of young congolese are eager to take up civic citizenship and play a role in improving life in the country. three months ago, a simple citizen initiative to raise awareness among young people was shut down by security services and 30 people disappeared behind bars. the foreigners have since been released, but the organizers yves makwambala and fred bauma are still in custody today on suspicion of treason. the congolese government continues to struggle with a huge identity problem. on the one hand, the country has a very talented young generation, but on the other hand, their initiatives are clashing with a rigid and corrupt government. the panzi hospital of dr mukwege, last year's winner of the european parliament's sakharov prize, faces a debt of over half a million euros in back taxes. an unpaid bill, totally surreal. the congolese generation of today symbolizes the hope for change and peace. unfortunately, grassroots initiatives to educate young people about their civil rights in the "democratic" republic of congo can quickly cost them their freedom. oh, the irony.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, fred bauma and yves makwambala are two young congolese citizens who are currently detained in kinshasa, simply because they have joined other young africans, other movements in africa, to campaign for citizenship, freedom and democracy. they are in makala prison, after spending a few months in the dungeon of the national intelligence agency. their trial just started today. they are accused of attempting to kill president kabila, simply for meeting. what we are asking europe for here is, of course, their immediate release, the abandonment by the democratic republic of the congo of all charges against them and the filimbi and lucha movements, because these movements are essential in the current tense pre-electoral context. they must be able to channel a form of citizenship to young people. if we do not want chaos to reign in the democratic republic of congo, we must support the pro-democracy activists.
author. president, in 2011, bahrain experienced a month of mass popular protests for more freedom and democracy. one in four bahrainis were on the streets at the time. 93 people were killed in police brutality. thousands of protesters were arrested. in response to international outrage, the king decided to set up an international commission of inquiry. at first it seemed that the government was prepared to put the recommendations of the committee of inquiry into practice. but it soon became clear that human rights activists and journalists were being severely mistreated in prison. nabeel rajab, the president of the bahrain centre for human rights, was also jailed on several occasions. his crime? he was criticizing a violent incident at the prison. in the meantime, we continue to receive disturbing reports that freedom of expression is a loose concept. arbitrary arrests of activists are a travesty. there's still torture in bahrain! i think we agree on the merits of the case. the people want only freedom, openness and democracy. and we must help them, first of all, to implement their own recommendations of 2011.
mr president, as you know, i have requested the presence of the president of the european council at our debate on wednesday on migration – not on the state of the union, on migration – because i think it is absolutely necessary that, in the middle of such a crisis, the president of the council is here to discuss it with us. i know that the commission is going to come forward with new proposals, but the problem is not the commission. the problem is not the european parliament, which has a unified position on this – it voted in april on a resolution. the problem is in the council – the member states – which have a lack of unity and a lack of solidarity in this. for that reason, i ask again that you make an appeal for president tusk to be present on wednesday morning at the debate on migration.
the european ban on commercial seal products has a chequered history. my own party, the nva, was with former mep frieda brepoels in the cradle of the ban in 2009. the ban was a long-awaited response to the demand of millions of citizens to ban products from the cruel hunt from our market. the law did not fail to have its effect. in canada alone, that meant saving over 2 million seals. the ban has been challenged several times, but it stands. and it is crucial that the wto also gives the green light. with some targeted amendments to ensure wto compatibility, the ban is now firmly entrenched. parliament and the council have reached a defensible agreement which meets wto requirements in a timely manner, puts animal welfare at the centre and does not undermine the original legislation. our delegation will therefore support the agreement tomorrow.
on behalf of the group of the european right this is a comprehensive report covering many areas. for lack of time, i should like to focus on the rights of disabled people. in europe, this group continues to suffer from marginalization and exclusion. last week i was present in geneva on behalf of the ep at the exchange of views between the un monitoring committee and the european commission on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. their concluding observations have just been published. the committee was very clear: the rights of persons with disabilities are fundamental human rights. we must therefore take the lead at european level, not only in social policy but also in employment, infrastructure, mobility, foreign policy, eu funds and so on. the disability affects all policy areas. all policy-makers must take disability into account in their policies and also in their own. this means that people with disabilities should also have equal access to eu funds and eu projects. for example, there should be a separate budget to cover the additional costs of, for example, sign language and real time subtitling for deaf people at conferences and workshops and personal assistance for blind and less mobile people. the european parliament must also be much more transparent and accessible to this group of people. they too are citizens of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur - and this is not an oratory - on her hard work and perseverance, which have enabled her to present an ambitious and high-quality report. it once again makes it possible to assess whether or not fundamental rights are being respected in the member states. today, it must be admitted, fundamental rights are too often applied according to different interpretations, sometimes to the comfort of the authorities in power. i am of course in agreement with everything that has been said in favour of the report, but i would like to address a special word to my colleagues in the epp group. i'm stunned today. the resolution which is being proposed to replace the report is a real slap in the face of what we are advocating in this house. how can we support a resolution that completely ignores the plight of our homeless? where are the democratic values when we refuse to condemn the cia's detention and torture programmes on european soil? why are you removing all the paragraphs about freedom of speech and the media? do not your humanist values lead you to want to prosecute the barbaric perpetrators of genital mutilation on little girls? the rest of your report is obviously in line with that. you're putting everything on the back burner, including the parts on gender equality and violence against women, lgbti rights, children's rights, protection of migrants, protection of people with disabilities. i don't understand this way of looking at things. so, ladies and gentlemen, before blindly pursuing a group line which expresses discomfort because some of your leading members are clearly in breach of the spirit and the letter of the treaties in their own countries, it would be good to consider the moral cost. i know that a large number of members of the epp group share our views, so i would like to make a real appeal to these democrats to support mrs ferrara's excellent report. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, first of all, this is very characteristic of the technique of disinformation that is being used. i do not think that this report is that simplistic, although i personally have no major moral problems with this question. i think that man is universal. he is the same everywhere, with his sufferings, his joys, his genius and his talent. i am therefore a little surprised that members of parliament who should be defending european values come here and make claims - which are very populist in other respects - which are, moreover, totally false. as you know, we must distinguish between humanitarian refugees, who are asylum seekers who leave their country because they want to escape violence, fear, tyranny and despotism, and economic migrants - as commissioner timmermans has very well said - who cannot stay if they do not comply with european or national rules and laws. so stop being simplistic, i think it's not honest to be simplistic like you are!
mr president, that is enough, i am not in the habit of exchanging words once i have answered a question, it can only be of the same tone. so i do not accept this kind of debate.
in writing. the report adopted by parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union highlights key elements related to respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it addresses, in a progressive way, such essential areas as equality and non-discrimination, the rights of children, migrants, lgbti people, people with disabilities, violence against women, protection of minorities, etc. i would like to emphasize a particular point in the report, namely the need to set up a permanent mechanism to monitor the respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law by each member state. this is of course fundamental to the protection of all european citizens. i can only welcome the fact that a majority of the house has supported this report which recalls the importance of the respect by the member states for human dignity, freedom, non-discrimination, diversity and the fundamental principles of democracy, all of which are values which are at the heart of the european construction and which must therefore be respected at all times by each member state.
in writing. "water, a human right" or the theme of a citizens' initiative for which i had been an ambassador in my previous role as secretary general of the confederation of christian trade unions of belgium. by then we had collected almost two million signatures. two million europeans who want water to be accessible to all, who want water not to be a commodity. water is like air, we all need it to live. there is therefore no question of privatising it. on the contrary, water must be available in quality and quantity to all. we must ensure that prices for the first consumers are much lower than those for the large consumers. in any case, this citizen initiative is important important for humanity, but also important in terms of democratic credibility. it is now up to the european commission to implement what is contained in this initiative.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. a previous third reading on novel foods failed simply because of the commission's stubborn attitude in this respect. the commission - let us be honest - has waited far too long with these proposals, which were submitted far too late and, moreover, split into two pieces, two directives of which the second directive was actually submitted with a legal basis which we can only call scandalous. we could only agree and the member states had to decide unanimously. we know that some in the barroso commission actually wanted to come up with a stronger proposal. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the draft budget. i am very pleased with the proposal before us. i think we are sending a very clear signal to the member states and to the european commission. it is very good that we are making these two proposals for a directive into one regulation. parliament wants a clear ban on cloning animals for food production. we also do not want the import or sale of cloned animals and perhaps the most important message is that this parliament wants a ban on the marketing of food from cloned animals and indeed, mr andriukaitis, from their descendants. what are the reasons for this? they have already been mentioned in the debate. cloning has a disastrous effect on animal welfare, leading to increased mortality, increased risk of disease, genetic abnormalities. in addition, cloning poses a threat to genetic diversity in the long term and, as i said, the european consumer does not want to know about this type of food. so i hope that we shall have a very convincing majority. i think democracy here should be about short-term interests. democracy must take precedence over commercial interests. democracy must take precedence over animal cruelty. i hope that parliament will adopt this proposal by a very large majority, so that we can conclude the negotiations with the member states in a clear and strong way with many advantages in hand. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i think that when we are dealing with a dossier at first reading and we are trying to make a statement as a group of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, we should always indicate the best possible starting point. that is what we are trying to do in this parliament at the moment. it has always been the conviction of my group that a total ban, not only on the cloning of animals but also on the marketing of meat and food from cloned animals and their descendants, is the best approach to reassure consumers and to prevent animal abuse. [ the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8))
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it is true that the ttip negotiations are taking place against the background of this dossier. this was proved when the previous commission, the barroso commission, prepared this dossier and from the good winds that have explained to us the creation of that piece of legislation, we know that commissioner borg actually wanted to go much further than the proposals that were finally submitted. it is indeed commissioner de gucht, the belgian trade commissioner, who intervened with a number of other commissioners at the meeting of the 28 commissioners. we have thus arrived at a weaker piece of legislation. i believe that with a strong attitude here in this parliament we can ensure that the commission will eventually have to give in to democracy.
mr president, this debate in plenary will not have been different, as we can see, from those which preceded it and which i attended in the committee on international trade, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development. it is a matter of a head-on collision between our parliament and the commission, which is, in a way, standing up to public opinion. i shall vote for the report by mrs sommer and myself, even if i differ on certain points. i think the reports go a little too far, for example, in calling into question the temporary and renewable nature of the ban on cloning, which seems to me to be a slight on the possibilities of research. on this point i agree with mrs girling. the real question today, however, is how we as a trialogue will get out of this impasse and avoid this shock, because, i am a little sorry to say to you, commissioner, the commission is largely responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves today. nothing, if anything, has been done since the failure of the new foods in 2011. in 2010, however, the commission considered, and i quote, that it was 'appropriate' to introduce traceability measures, which are demanded not only by us, the citizens, but also by the council. what has been done in the last five years and what do you intend to do now to save, in some way, this legislation which is essential in the eyes of the citizens?
the european ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes must be maintained. a large majority agrees. negative effects on animal welfare and uncertainty about the long-term effects are decisive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the results of the research are not lost. the question is how you intend to implement this ban on cloning. well, it's essential that we do that in a realistic way. the legislation must be based on scientific facts, be practicable, verifiable and wto-compatible. the commission proposal seems to meet these criteria. unfortunately, the european parliament's position is not so, because it is not practicable, it is not verifiable. i shall be voting on the realistic guideline. i am convinced that this is the only way to meet the legitimate concerns of european citizens. creating expectations that you can't live up to is counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying this protocol, which updates the fight against forced labour and puts it back in the real world, and gives the convention binding legal force, providing for the establishment of mechanisms for redress and reparation, such as compensation and reparation for material and physical harm.
in writing. the ilo and the eu share a common commitment to social and economic progress, better living and working conditions and employment promotion. it is essential that member states ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention. the conventions on freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation, the abolition of child labour are terms of reference which must become indispensable. but the real debate here is about the role of the state as an impartial public authority, a guarantor of equal opportunities and social justice. it is about access for all to education, justice, administration, health care, and culture. this debate will lead to policy solutions such as, for example, greater fiscal convergence, which too often, like unregulated globalisation, encourages the risk of social dumping. i repeat that it is up to the public authorities to play their role as protectors and regulators, enabling them to carry out the great royal functions which naturally fall to them.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the ilo labour force convention and thus gave my consent to the proposal for a council decision. once adopted, this council decision will authorise member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention as regards social policy issues. despite the 1930 convention no 29 on forced labour, we must recognize that this phenomenon is still relevant in our societies. according to the ilo, at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour worldwide. this is a problem we cannot ignore. the 2014 protocol referred to here should address implementation gaps, strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and improve protection and compensation for victims of forced labour. in view of all this, i felt it was inevitable that i should vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ convinced that the proper administration of justice in a state governed by the rule of law requires the application of the rules on immunity in accordance with the values of the union, i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr korwin-mikke, in order to allow the polish judiciary to continue its investigation, which does not appear to be linked to mr korwin-mikke's status as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr janusz korwin-mikke's immunity, so that the polish judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts mr korwin-mikke exceeded the maximum speed allowed in an urban area by 32 km/h, or 50 km/h, by car have no connection with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to improve customs risk management and to strengthen the detection and prevention of customs fraud, so that the internal market is equipped with safe products, accompanied by certificates of authenticity.
in writing. ‒ with the development of international trade, customs fraud has increased in recent years. fraud linked to false declarations of origin of products alone represents an annual loss of eur 100 million. this scourge has a considerable negative economic impact on european businesses and the community budget, and it also poses health risks for our consumers. to be effective, the fight against this grey economy must be based on the rapid exchange of information. the delays in the european anti-fraud office's investigations into customs debts subject to limitation periods, which resulted in significant losses, show that the current working method is not fast enough. the new rules, adopted by a large majority in the european parliament, are designed to give national and european authorities effective and reliable tools to access and contribute to a secure flow of information in real time. this modernisation of cooperation between member states will improve the fight against customs fraud and will also speed up the implementation of electronic customs, with positive effects on the competitiveness of european businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states, which aims to improve cooperation between them to ensure the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations in the member states.
in writing. ‒ olaf, the union's anti-fraud agency, regularly finds that both the member states and the european commission lose a lot of revenue through alcohol and cigarette smuggling. for example, they are exported to third countries and then reimported, which allows tax evasion. in the negotiations with the council, the epp was the main opposition to the inclusion of export data under the guise of 'trade secrets'. also, customs agents currently have few tools to determine whether the origin of the goods as declared actually corresponds to the actual route of containers. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. this report at second reading provides a solid basis for taking stronger action against customs fraud, in the interests of privacy. the establishment of a system of registration of excise goods in the form of a european database and the improvement of border surveillance systems will help to minimise the loss of tax revenue. this new legislation will help to improve cooperation between customs services without increasing the administrative burden. at the same time, consumers are better protected, as fewer counterfeits can enter europe. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ trade in seal products is generally prohibited due to moral concerns about animal welfare. the only exception is the traditional hunting of indigenous communities like the inuit. i welcome these strengthened rules for the eu ban on trade in seal products as they promote animal welfare and take into account the right of indigenous communities to self-determination.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report to amend the regulation on trade in seal products to ensure that it is in line with the decision of the wto dispute settlement body. the commission had considered that the two derogations from the ban on the import of seal products on the european market provided for in the european regulation were not justified. these two derogations concerned traditional subsistence hunting and hunting for the sustainable management of marine resources. the union thus sets very strict limits on the possibilities for placing seal products on the european market. only products from traditional hunting, which is carried out for subsistence purposes and with due regard for animal welfare, should be allowed to be placed on the european market. the amended regulation was adopted in 2009 in response to public demands strongly opposed to the conditions for the killing of seals. the union had thus put into practice the principle of animal welfare which is dear to its citizens and had thus responded to their ethical concerns.
in writing. ‒ meps in plenary today gave a very strong backing to the busoi report on the sensitive issue of trade in seal products. it is the meat, oil or fur of seals used mainly in the clothing and cosmetics industry, in traditional cooking and in the manufacture of furniture. in practice, this means the introduction of a new regulation to bring existing legislation into line with wto decisions and recommendations. since 2010, the european union has imposed an embargo on seal products, citing the immoral nature of the seal hunt, and at the same time provides for two derogations: - products from hunts by the inuit or other indigenous communities ('ci derogation') - products from small-scale, non-profit-making hunts aimed at the sustainable management of marine resources ('grm derogation'). the wto concluded in 2014 that the latter derogation was not justified. it was therefore important to adapt the legislation, to put the cursor in the right place, taking into account animal welfare standards in the 21st century while incorporating the millennia-old hunting traditions of the inuit.
in writing. ‒ i voted yesterday in favour of this report which calls for a ban on the sale of seal products in the eu by ending a derogation for products from hunting to protect fish stocks. since 2009, the eu has banned trade in all seal products, both clothing and food, in an apparent effort to protect the welfare of these animals. however, europe has so far granted two derogations, accepting that the inuit community can continue to sell these products and allowing trade in products from hunting when it is aimed at protecting fish stocks. the second exception was put to the vote yesterday. the eu's ban on trade in seal products was challenged in the world trade organisation by norway and canada, leading the wto in 2014 to ask europe to clarify its exemptions. the text adopted on tuesday therefore confirmed the derogation granted to the inuit community, specifying its conditions. these new stricter rules will apply from mid-october 2015.
in writing. ‒ although some nordic member states have tried to get an exception to the ban on trade in seal products, i am pleased that parliament has today, by an overwhelming majority, made the legislation watertight. the changes that have been made were made at the instigation of the world trade organization. it was clear that the distinction between commercial catches and catches for the purpose of marine resource management was too vague. in addition, mrm catches could still be marketed. by removing the marine resource management aspect from the legislation, that is the problem of the job. however, an exception remains for the inuit community, which is still allowed to hunt seals on a limited basis but cannot bring the derived products to the european market. i voted in favour of the report, which has already received very wide support among the european people in the past.
in writing. ‒ as regards trade in seal products, i voted in favour of the report because, firstly, it is not desirable to allow these products to be traded on european markets. this should ensure that fewer and fewer seals die a horrible and useless death. in this way we are also bringing european legislation into line with wto rules. it is to the credit of the european parliament that it has taken care of the inuit and allowed the thousands of skins still in stock to be sold. there must be a balance between the economic and traditional necessity of seal products for the inuit on the one hand and a ban on the cruel slaughter of these seals for global consumption on the other.
in writing. ‒ the cloning of animals is strictly prohibited for ethical reasons and because of the impact on animal health and the possible consequences for human health. i therefore voted in favour of a comprehensive ban on cloning, i.e. a ban on the cloning of animals, the breeding material of cloned animals, their offspring and products, and the importation of reproductive material, and i supported the text put to the vote.
in writing. – science develops at a fast rate. not so long ago an ivf procedure was a risky issue and the success rate was very low. due to continually deepening and improving our scientific knowledge, we have managed to significantly improve this technique, helping many parents that have fertility problems. i voted against this report because i believe we need to be able to develop our science. in addition, the evidence that we have at the moment does not show a significant adversely impact on health. low efficiency rates are exactly a reason to develop our science, rather than to tie its hands.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a ban on the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes in the european union. this prohibition concerns possible imports of milk and meat from cloned animals, since the european union does not market such products on its territory. on the other hand, it imports 300,000 tonnes of beef a year and in the absence of a traceability system in the countries where the cloning technique is authorised, it is impossible to know the share of cloning in the imported products. the commission wants to limit the marketing ban to the cloned animal itself. i believe that we should go further and extend the ban to the descendants of cloned animals, to germ products (embryos and sperm) and to products derived from them such as meat or milk. by voting for this ban by a large majority, parliament is sending the signal that consumer protection must take precedence over the financial interests of certain producers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report on the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes. parliament has just voted in favour of a much stronger line than the one originally proposed by the commission. parliament called for a comprehensive and total ban not only on the cloning technique and the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from cloned animals but also on the importation of the offspring of cloned animals, products derived from their offspring and germinal products of cloned animals. parliament also called for a traceability system to enable these bans to be effectively implemented. parliament has thus adopted a position without appeal categorically rejecting cloning, a position which is broadly in line with public concern in this respect. it is public health and ethical concerns about animal welfare that have led the majority of meps to vote in favour of this ambitious report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has said a categorical 'no' to animal cloning, to the placing on the market of cloned animals or live cloned embryos, to the marketing of products such as milk or meat from cloned animals, and to the importation into the eu of products derived from the offspring of cloned animals and food products derived from the offspring of these clones. i am glad that parliament has voted for a general ban on cloning for human or animal consumption, in the interests of human health, animal health and welfare and the environment. in this way, we are respecting the 80% of european citizens who do not want to hear about food from cloned animals on their plates. the report voted yesterday calls on the eu to legislate by regulation and impose a certification system on exporters of products derived from cloned animals to the eu to ensure the traceability of these foods and thus ensure the application of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes for a number of reasons. first, many of the cloned animals die after a few weeks of excruciating pain. secondly, cloning is not yet ready in the european union and the european market is threatened with being flooded by asian cloned products. this resolution will correct this imbalance. thirdly, the majority of the population is not (yet) ready to accept cloning in its food chain.
in writing. ‒ the charter of fundamental rights guarantees all citizens of the european union and its residents the same personal, civil, political, economic and social rights. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to create a mechanism for regularly monitoring the situation of fundamental rights in each member state, so that possible violations of these fundamental rights can be prevented.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted by parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union highlights key elements related to respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it addresses, in a progressive way, such essential areas as equality and non-discrimination, the rights of children, migrants, lgbti people, people with disabilities, violence against women, the protection of minorities, etc. i would like to emphasize a particular point in the report. the need to establish a permanent mechanism to monitor the respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law by each member state. this is of course fundamental to the protection of all european citizens. i can only welcome the fact that a majority of parliament has supported this report which recalls the importance of member states' respect for human dignity, freedom, non-discrimination, diversity and the fundamental principles of democracy. these are the values on which the european construction is based and which must therefore be respected at all times by each member state.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important that we keep a close watch to the state of our union, and its fundamental values. we have to keep a mirror to ourselves and to the member states when it comes to our rights and freedoms. rights of the lgbti community, asylum seekers, immigrants and other vulnerable groups have to be respected. i fully support the call for effective action against violence against women, hate crime and hate speech. this report is a good reflection document on the state of our fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this ambitious report which aims to assess how member states have respected fundamental rights in 2013-14. this type of report is indispensable as it is clear that even within the eu, fundamental rights are applied according to different interpretations. the text addresses the rights of women and children, lgbti people, religious and ethnic minorities, the homeless, etc. it looks at topics such as freedom of expression, freedom of the media, counter-terrorism measures, privacy violations, surveillance and hate speech. it does not shy away from the dramatically current issue of the situation of migrants and asylum seekers and urges that solidarity and respect for the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers be placed at the heart of european migration policies. a request to which i can only join with conviction.
in writing. the union is quick to denounce human rights violations in the world but is reluctant to do so at home. women, children, lgbti people, people with disabilities, the elderly, migrants, roma - all are victims of violations of their most fundamental rights, again and again, in all member states. the report sheds light on all these violations and provides concrete solutions. today we still lack the union of our rights. today more than ever we need objective and continuous monitoring of the situation in each member state, based on common indicators. we must also institutionalize dialogue and make it systematic in the event of a member state's breach of the commitments it made when it joined the european union.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted yesterday, which i supported, expresses its concern about the hot-deportation procedures, the reception of migrants and their detention in closed centres, as well as negative stereotypes and misinformation against them. the resolution also condemns the security measures at the eu's borders, including the construction of walls and barbed wire, and calls for border controls to be carried out in compliance with fundamental rights. the resolution also calls on the commission to develop a scoreboard using 'common and objective' indicators to assess the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this scoreboard should serve as a basis for continuous monitoring and an annual national evaluation system, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the epp alternative resolution because i think it is shameful that, for the sake of political leaders in its midst such as mr orban and mr berlusconi, it has tried to water down the resolution before us. it is not because a member state is part of the european union that it can abandon the efforts it made to join. eu membership is a continuing effort based on the protection of citizens' fundamental rights, especially when it comes to sexual and reproductive health rights. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ since 1994, parliament has had the power to hear commissioners appointed before the commission's collegial vote of approval. this report, which i have approved, underlines the importance of this procedure in terms of democracy and transparency. it also suggests improvements to these hearings, including adapting the procedure for the commissioner or commissioners appointed to the vice-presidency, imposing a deadline on member states for presenting their candidates, or checking declarations of financial interests of commissioners-designate. it also stressed the need to increase the number of female commissioners. in this respect, each member state should nominate a man and a woman for the post of national commissioner.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. i think the concept of having hearings is a great way of scrutinizing whether the commissioners-designate are well prepared for the function as commissioner. it is important to constantly learn lessons from the way this process is being run. improvements could be made as to the dynamic of the q&a, with immediate follow-up questions, or by establishing deadlines for member states to put forward their candidate.
in writing. the process of commissioners being heard by elected officials and made public in full enhances the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the union's institutions. this type of democratic exercise does not exist anywhere in europe at the national level. this is a way of making known men and women who have important responsibilities and a decisive political role for the future of european construction and therefore for european citizens. it's a way to gain their trust. the treaty on european union promotes equality between men and women. the proposal to submit two candidates (one male and one female) per state will help to meet this priority.
in writing. ‒ the public hearings of commissioner candidates provide the european parliament and citizens with an opportunity to learn about each candidate's priorities and assess their competence. when problems are revealed in the debate, it is for the european parliament to oppose the nomination of a candidate and to ask for his replacement. once again, the european parliament is leading the way and at the forefront of transparency. the report aims to draw conclusions from the latest process of commissioner hearings and to put forward some ideas which could lead to a change in procedures. the text adopted requires, for example, that each member state nominate at least two candidates for the post of european commissioner: one man and one woman. the text also states that the current scope of commissioners' declarations of interests is too limited and that the commission should be asked to revise its regulation on this matter as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the n-va members of the european parliament abstained from voting on the corbett report on the hearings with the commissioners-designate, because on the one hand this report proposes some positive elements, such as the disclosure of family financial interests, but on the other hand we doubt whether it will be enough to counter the political games that the 'grand coalition' of christian democrats, socialists and liberals played at the hearings with the members of the juncker commission in 2014 to save the hatchet of their own weak candidate by putting all the controversial candidates of the traditional parties in one big bag and hence holding the european parliament hostage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the hearings we are organising with commissioners-designate are an important moment for the european parliament. on the one hand, we can check that the candidates are well prepared for their new job. on the other hand, we can also see (as has been shown in the past) whether the right person would indeed be seated in the right place. it is also a first opportunity for the european parliament to give its views to the new commission. we must of course also look at our procedures as a parliament and dare to draw lessons from previous hearings.
in writing. ‒ technological developments and access to the internet are important for the right to freedom of expression, but can be exploited to violate human rights. i therefore believe it is important that eu-made technologies do not fall into the wrong hands and are misused by repressive regimes as surveillance systems to spy on their own people or to spy on businesses.
in writing. ‒ technological advances have an increasingly important impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms. this report, which i supported, stresses the universality of these rights and freedoms, including in the field of information and communication technologies. while condemning mass surveillance practices contrary to the rule of law, the report calls on the commission to promote digital freedom in its policies, including external ones, to create a body to assess the impact of these technologies on human rights and draws the commission's attention to the complex situation of whistleblowers. it is essential to protect those citizens who report, for example, mass spying or tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because of two concerns. firstly, i believe that the report fails to strike a healthy balance between freedom and security. we mostly talk about national security versus civil liberties. but this is a wrong starting point. citizens cannot enjoy their security if they are not free. but it is also evident that there is no freedom without security! the european union must give this matter serious thought, especially in the current climate of terror. secondly, i do not think that there is any way in which european companies can be stigmatised. the report places the responsibility for the legitimate use of software programmes by third countries mainly with eu exporting companies. this is self-destructing.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own-initiative report. ict contributes to improving access to information, promoting freedom of expression and association, documenting and reporting on abuses of fundamental rights. but these technologies also allow for tracking individuals, censorship, mass collection of personal data and hacking of electronic devices. ict can therefore easily become a dangerous weapon. control and regulatory measures must be taken. this resolution reminds all european actors that they must respect the obligations arising from the charter of fundamental rights. specific criteria should be developed to prevent that any union financial and technical support aimed at the development and export of ict to third countries may also indirectly contribute to human rights violations. these european surveillance technologies and censorship tools cannot be sold and made available to authoritarian regimes that do not apply the rule of law. finally, the responsibility must also be borne by private companies, which also play an active role.
the internet and social media are powerful weapons in the fight to protect human rights and ensure freedom of expression. these communication systems have the advantage of instantaneous global dissemination of distressing news about human rights violations and restrictions on freedom of expression, and the ability to provide rapid help and support. but this technology can also be used to block news sites, to imprison citizens, bloggers and journalists, or to physically abuse them, through large-scale surveillance, censorship, interception and so on. access to and use of the internet is a fundamental human right. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and on the environment in the union, in particular by providing information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and on the environment.
in writing. ‒ open internet access and technological advances are playing an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the full and unhindered enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. unfortunately, these technological systems are sometimes hijacked by government and oppressive regimes or criminal organizations to breach them through censorship, surveillance, tracking of information, and so on. in its report on the impact of intrusion and surveillance on human rights in third countries (2014/2232(ini) parliament called on the commission to ensure consistency between the union's external actions and its internal ict policies. parliament also called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation. finally, the report also draws attention to the critical situation of whistleblowers who, when they report abusive surveillance practices in third countries, should be considered as human rights defenders and thus be entitled to eu protection.
in writing. ‒ i support, like the whole s&d group, the approach of quality controls in the cap rather than an increase in controls. this report, which i have approved, calls on the commission to simplify the arrangements for the expenditure of the common agricultural policy, taking account of the diversity of european agriculture and avoiding the dismantling of the instruments already in place. believing that the simplification and rationalisation of the cap is crucial for the future prosperity of the union's agricultural sector, the motion for a resolution in the report suggests in particular: - reducing the administrative burden on the cap in order to reduce the error rate; - introducing tools to differentiate between error and fraud; - clarifying the guidelines for national authorities and farmers; - improving the quality and content of inspections rather than the quantity of controls.
in writing. the administrative burden on farmers receiving cap contributions is far too heavy. it's time to reduce it so they can focus on their field activities. the aim is to strike a balance between a reduced administrative burden and effective financial control. clearer guidelines are needed for both member states and farmers in order to reduce the error rate and to be able to distinguish between what is an error and what could be considered fraud. these are essential initiatives to attract young farmers again and ensure the sustainability of the agricultural sector in the eu.
in writing. ‒ angry european farmers have reminded us in recent days of the precarious situation into which they have been plunged by the fall in prices in the sector. direct payments under the common agricultural policy are supposed to make up for these losses, at least in part. on paper, because in reality the requirement to carry out 100% of the checks before the first instalment of the payment can be made de facto prevents farmers from receiving these subsidies. while some of these controls are superfluous, this is just one example of how certain control rules of the common agricultural policy are poisoning the daily lives of farmers. i voted in favour of the sarvamaa report because we have to do better, improve the quality of controls, and reduce their costs, 4 billion euro a year for a budget for agriculture of 58 billion euro, that is huge! better use of european taxpayers' money and full and rapid access to it for the agricultural world is essential in a sector in crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for simplification and reduction of administrative burden, which are of course very much desired. each year, the control of 40 million transactions and other cap controls costs about 4 billion euros. the text of the report stresses the need to strike a balance between a reduced administrative burden and effective financial control. however, i am of course mindful of the need to ensure that decisions, under the guise of administrative simplification, do not lead to the cap being called into question, to a thinly disguised renationalisation or to a transfer of the administrative burden of the commission's departments to the member states or, worse, to the beneficiaries. genuine administrative simplification must benefit at the same time the beneficiaries of the cap, the national/regional administrations and the commission services. i'm looking after it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained, along with the greens, in the vote on the sarvamaa report on better control of expenditure on the common agricultural policy. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i have always been in favour of effective controls in all policy areas, and certainly in the agricultural sector, which receives the bulk of the european budget. all sorts of proposals to improve the quality of controls on agricultural expenditure are good. but this effort must not be misused to introduce an agenda of deregulation under the euphemistic name of better regulation. it should not be used to weaken or even abolish social or environmental rules. our proposals to improve the report in this area were not supported and we therefore abstained. yes, there is certainly room for simpler bureaucratic rules and less paperwork for farmers through the cap, as the european court of auditors has also stated. but this complexity is also partly due to the great diversity of agriculture in the eu. besides, we shouldn't throw the baby out with the bath water. ensuring that agricultural money is spent well is crucial to maintaining european citizens' support for a european agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ as a liberal group we believe that the european commission must urgently simplify the common agricultural policy, especially when it comes to the complex rules that cause farmers in the eu a lot of administrative burden. i am also concerned about the proper control of the eu funds paid out, because fraud means less money for the farmer who is doing his job properly and can lead to more controls and more administrative burdens. i voted for this resolution because our farmers need all the help they can get from europe in these difficult times.
in writing. ‒ in the german-speaking community and throughout the european union, family businesses are the basis of the economy. they create the most jobs and often offer long-term growth prospects, but they face many problems when it comes to financing investment or handing over generations. i therefore support this own-initiative report which calls on the eu member states to create more favourable conditions for family businesses.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis in europe must push us to find innovative solutions to restart growth, increase investment and actively combat rampant unemployment. the european union has 25 million unemployed citizens, including more than five million young people under the age of 25. it is therefore essential to create an investment-friendly environment for our businesses and, more generally, to develop the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the union. the report, which i have approved, stresses that family businesses in particular can play a decisive role in absorbing the effects of the financial and economic crisis and in revitalising the economy. family businesses account for more than 60% of all businesses in the union and 40 to 50% of private sector employment. the rapporteur therefore believes that member states should provide more data and figures to enable a better understanding of the problems and challenges facing family businesses and to encourage the exchange of good practice.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that we should give careful attention to the family business in europe. not only because they are very important for local job creation, but also because they represent 85% of all companies and 60% of all jobs in europe. this report addresses issues we need to tackle, such as reducing administrative burden and improving the rules for transfer of family business.
in writing. more than 70% of businesses in europe are family businesses and they account for 60% of private sector employment. they are an element of growth and stability in the various member states and represent the backbone of the european economy. it is urgent to help these enterprises to function properly and to pass on their knowledge. that is why i support this report, which provides for a reduction in the overall administrative burden and a simplification of the tax procedure. this can be achieved by simplifying administrative procedures, reducing transmission costs and creating training programmes. at present, due to the cost and complexity of the procedures, these companies do not easily find successors, which leads entrepreneurs to stop their activities. this is unacceptable for companies which have been successful for generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the difficulties faced by family businesses in europe and stresses the need to develop european legislation. the report adopted yesterday makes a number of proposals to the european commission and the member states to facilitate the activities of family businesses. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to make a legislative proposal to simplify administrative and tax procedures, improve the legal framework governing the transfer of family businesses and introduce specific instruments for the financing of the transfer to avoid cash shortfalls. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we should not forget that family businesses account for almost 85% of european enterprises and 60% of private sector employment.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of this report because it recognises the added value of family businesses for the european union. these companies are an important building block of our economy and it is our duty to listen to their needs. in flanders too, there are numerous family businesses, from small to large, which often face specific problems. unfortunately, there is still no clear definition of family businesses. this leads to these companies slipping through the cracks of the european network. these companies are often in a grey area as regards european subsidies. so we in europe certainly have to take a stand, but the member states also have a responsibility. the fiscal and social spheres remain the responsibility of the member states. the report is clear on this point and therefore deserves our support.
in writing. ‒ it is high time that the european commission paid special attention to family businesses operating in the european union. the resolution calls, among other things, for the existing instruments of european support to be made more accessible to smes and, in particular, to family businesses. some family businesses fall outside the scope of smes and are therefore no longer eligible for certain european subsidies. the commission should pay more attention to this. it is up to europe to give this target group a little more breathing room, especially in view of the number of jobs they create. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ major economic drivers, such as fisheries, shipping, ports, logistics, tourism, etc., are closely linked to the sea and the coast. in order to better exploit the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy for creating jobs and growth, the adopted report proposes initiatives which i support. the objectives of the programme include increasing knowledge of the seas and oceans, improving the skills needed to apply new technologies in the marine environment and strengthening the coordination of marine research. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ while the number of passengers transported by sea has decreased in recent decades, the blue economy has developed considerably, as evidenced by the growing importance of leisure activities, the exploration and exploitation of fossil energy resources, prospecting and prospects for exploiting minerals existing in the seabed, the prospects for exploiting the energy potential of waves, tides, currents or biomass for electricity generation, offshore wind generation or the development of marine biotechnologies. the blue economy is growing, covering a wide range of economic activities and posing a challenge for the future. the report, which i have approved, stresses in this connection that education and training, research and development are fundamental elements for the sustainable development of the blue economy. it is important to assess the compatibility of existing programmes and measures (including in terms of funding) with the objectives of developing the blue economy, the interaction between the different structures and existing programmes, and their results.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it is important to realise the innovative potential that our marine sectors have to offer. in times of economic difficulties it is important to look at all sector and see where they can contribute to economic recovery and economic growth. a well-developed strategy should be put in place to fully exploit the growth potential of this sector by 2020. this strategy should encompass new technologies, counter the degradation of marine ecosystems and provide for long term sustainable growth.
the rediscovery of europe's seas and oceans as a source of new wealth and economic growth covers a range of traditional and emerging economic sectors. the shift towards a new 'blue' economy, in which the resources of our coasts, seas and oceans are developed in a sustainable way, offers numerous opportunities for new economic growth and employment. in the field of energy production, the sea, as an inexhaustible source of renewable energy, offers the opportunity to meet environmental objectives and create thousands of new jobs. innovation in traditional sectors such as shipbuilding and fisheries should ensure the transition to sustainable shipping and fisheries. heavy investment is needed to tap the employment potential of the blue economy. the european union has a special role to play in the development of the blue economy. however, in order to maximise the creation of new jobs, it is necessary to allow for optimal partnerships between science and industry and to develop an attractive investment climate for companies and private investors.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, underlines the importance of innovation in all sectors of the blue economy in order to create new jobs and promote growth. the sea and the coast are indeed important drivers of the economy. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activities related to the seas and oceans, ranging from traditional sectors to emerging sectors, such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism, pleasure boating, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology. the text of the report as adopted is centred on several proposals, including a call for concrete targets and timelines to improve the accessibility of marine data, in line with the commission communication 'innovation in the blue economy: realising the job and growth potential of our seas and oceans'.
in writing. ‒ with nearly 5 million young europeans unemployed, all the relevant levers must be used to reduce this human tragedy. one of these, as emphasized in this report, which i have approved, is to awaken the entrepreneurial spirit and sense of initiative among young people and to prepare them as well as possible for the knowledge economy and the ways in which society operates today. the rapporteur stresses in this connection the need to promote entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. in concrete terms, the parliament's resolution calls on the commission:- to adopt a systematic approach;- to use the instruments available;- to develop skills at all levels of education.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the initiative report on ‘promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training’ because i strongly believe europe needs to support and encourage its young entrepreneurs to have their own business. i am convinced that entrepreneurial skills and competences, such as in ict, as well as transversal competences should be promoted in order to increase the rates of youth self-employment and to provide the young generation with a real opportunity to start their own businesses. with the adoption of this report the european parliament has asked the european commission to develop frameworks and support member states with the use of european funds (erasmus and esif). we have also asked for member states cooperation and sharing best practises. this report is important not only for the future of our youth but also for our european economy. we need to invest wisely in our future!
new zealand is the easiest and fastest country to start a business. the member states of europe are lagging behind. however, it is smes that form the backbone of the european economy. they actively contribute to innovative and sustainable growth. that is why entrepreneurship must be promoted. in addition to removing obstacles to entrepreneurship, greater efforts should be made within education to promote an entrepreneurial culture among young people. a positive image of entrepreneurship will motivate young people to turn their own creative ideas into concrete business plans. teaching entrepreneurship-oriented skills should be part of school curricula. the business community can also play a crucial role in entrepreneurship education. by offering targeted traineeships, including abroad, and by organising exchange projects between schools and industry, the theoretical teaching at school is enriched by the economic reality of industry.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the european parliament voted a resolution containing a series of measures aimed at achieving a coherent and effective education policy for young people. this is reflected in concrete initiatives taken by the european institutions and the coordination of member states' actions as well as follow-up measures. this is a valuable coordination when it comes to promoting the entrepreneurial spirit among young people, in particular by using innovative teaching methods. in seven years, the unemployment rate for 15-24 year olds in the union has risen from 15.5% to 22.2%, an intolerable increase, while belgium has seen an increase of more than 4% over the same period. this new legislative tool comes at a timely time in a europe which had 4.85 million young people out of work at the beginning of this year. the initiative is based on the wider europe 2020 strategy, which proposes five objectives in the fields of employment, research and development, climate change and sustainable energy, education, the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the eu-28. although the number of unemployed youths has decreased by 494,000 compared to february 2014, this rate remains unacceptable. the jobs of young people are often sacrificed on the altar of fiscal consolidation in the member states. once unemployed, young people face poverty and social exclusion. in this context, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training (2015/2006 (ini)) makes perfect sense and is a way of supporting employment. through this proposal, the european union is committed to strengthening and encouraging the close link between vocational training and school training as a model of success. by acquiring entrepreneurial skills, young people are encouraged to set up their own businesses, to succeed in this way, and thus to actively support job creation within the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as a liberal, i think it's of the utmost importance that the government creates opportunities for young people. this crisis is hitting young people very hard in their search for work. if the european union can facilitate the search for entrepreneurship by young people, we should embrace this opportunity with both hands. i therefore voted in favour of this agenda with conviction.
in writing. ‒ following the european commission's communication on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage, the parliamentary committee on culture and education issued several recommendations. the report highlights the real economic and strategic potential of cultural heritage. it contributes to job creation and the development of innovative products, services and processes. cultural tourism, to name just one example, is a key sector for the recovery of growth and employment. in the same way, cultural heritage represents a valuable contribution to several flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. i endorsed this report which highlights the role of europe's cultural heritage as a strategic resource for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. this heritage is a rich and diverse mosaic of cultural and creative expressions, including natural, built and archaeological sites, museums, monuments and works of art, historic cities, literary, musical and audiovisual works, as well as the knowledge, practices and traditions of european citizens. we have inherited it from previous generations and it is our duty to pass it on to future generations. this is far from the case in the world today, where terrorists are savagely demolishing with explosives and bulldozers heritage pieces representing other cultures but belonging to a universal heritage that we all share. in such a troubled time, it seemed to me essential to promote the inclusion of cultural heritage on the political agenda and to encourage member states to preserve our heritage, but also that of other cultures and civilizations through international cooperation.
in writing. building a culture of mutual respect, establishing relations between men on equal terms in rights and duties, creating a more harmonious society, is a fundamental need for humanity. while globalisation has unquestionably promoted the multiplication of trade and progress, it is our duty to combat the danger of the uniformity of our cultures. culture is a vector of openness and a motor for democracies, acting against any nationalist withdrawal, racist temptation and exclusion that are fuelled by the current economic and financial, climate and food crises. i believe that each people has its own message to deliver to the world. each people, each human being, has, by virtue of its culture, its own positive identity, the means to bring to humanity the genius of its imagination and creativity. as the rapporteur has rightly said, 'our cultural heritage is the silent witness of our long history, our creativity and our struggle'. cultural creation often draws or expresses a vision, a commitment, a bias. whether it is a relevant or impertinent bias, what matters is that it is the exercise of a right, including the right to denounce.
in writing. ‒ culture, a victim of the barbarism of those who wish to see the end of a people, as evidenced by the recent attacks by isil on the ancient city of palmyra, is a strong witness to our past, but also to our history, our roots, our identities and our common future in the european project. this is why parliament voted this afternoon a resolution to unlock the full potential of europe's cultural heritage, which deserves to be valued and preserved. in practice, cultural matters currently fall under several directorates-general within the european commission and are financed through several complementary programmes. the aim is to simplify this fragmented operation by proposing a number of solutions to the main obstacles that prevent it from reaching its full potential. these new legal, financial and technical perspectives should make its operation more efficient. it is also becoming urgent to give due consideration to the economic potential and political importance of cultural heritage. it is about giving culture the place it deserves in our political agenda so that it can make a real contribution to growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which advocates an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. the text adopted yesterday stresses in particular the importance of european subsidies and the contributions made by the european institutions to help member states preserve and promote cultural heritage in order to achieve its full social, economic and political potential.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative on the right to water was the first successful example of such a democratic instrument. citizens can thus call on the european commission to propose legislation. however, as the previous proposal did not sufficiently take account of the demands of the citizens' initiative, i support the resolution on the revision of the legislative proposals and the eu water framework directive (wfd). the water supply is to be excluded from trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which denounces the european commission's lack of ambition in the european citizens' initiative 'right2water', regrets the lack of new elements and formal political commitments despite the deep concerns of citizens. it should be remembered that water is not a mere commodity, but a public good essential to life and human dignity. the report therefore highlights the following key points: - water cuts are a violation of human rights; - water distribution companies cannot be privatised; - water quality is a priority; - member states and regional authorities should embark on a genuine social agreement to guarantee the availability, stability and safe management of this resource; - the water framework directives and the drinking water framework directives must be implemented; - much larger financial resources are also needed in the developing countries; - the commission is called upon to make the renewal of ageing drinking water networks a priority of the investment plan for europe. i supported that report.
in writing. ‒ the n-va believes that water is a public good and that the public sector should play a crucial regional role in water policy and management. developing a long-term vision is crucial in this respect. this does not mean, however, that the private sector cannot play a role in this. in flanders, too, water management and policy in the broad sense of the word are based on a mix of public and private actors. the n-va also stresses that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states have the right to decide for themselves to use different management systems for water supply. the resolution adopted by the european parliament today does not agree with our position on several fundamental points. the nva delegation therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the citizens' initiative is a mechanism that allows one million citizens from at least one quarter of the member states to ask the commission to propose legislation in areas falling within its competence. the aim of the water as a human right initiative was to ensure that eu governments provide all citizens with safe drinking water and adequate sanitation. i share the aim of this citizens' initiative and i particularly support the call to make the right to water and sanitation as recognized by the united nations a separate human right. i also support the inclusion of these rights in the charter of fundamental rights. however, other provisions in this report led me to abstain on the final vote. i believe that the provisions on drinking water supply are a matter for the member states and not for the eu. other policy provisions on austerity and the troika seemed to me to be out of place. i also had difficulties with certain provisions which were against trade agreements and in favour of a complete ban on all private water management initiatives.
in writing. access to water is a human right. in view of the scarcity of water resources, the problem of access to water will become more and more pressing and will undoubtedly require a responsible response from the political side. i am glad that this issue has been debated in the european parliament following the right2water citizens' initiative. citizens have sent a clear message that water policies must be a priority for europe. this issue will therefore undoubtedly remain on the european agenda and will have to be part of a broader and more comprehensive approach to the optimal and responsible management of our natural resources in general.
in writing. ‒ the boylan report is a striking example of the political diversion of a good citizen idea, in this case access to water. this is in the wake of the first successful european citizens' initiative: "water and sanitation are a human right!" ( right2water ), with over 1.9 million verified signatures in thirteen member states, the european parliament has rightly wanted to support this tool set up to enable european citizens to take part in the european debate. there is nothing to say about the form or support for the call for the right to water by its inclusion in the charter of fundamental rights. on the other hand, many of the reservations i have about certain proposals in the boylan report explain my abstention in the final vote. clearly, politically oriented passages on austerity policies or the outright ban on all private initiatives in water supply and management are contrary not only to the values i defend but also to the european treaty which authorizes delegations of public service missions. take belgium, for example, where inter-municipal water management systems abound, often not in the best interests of the citizens. surely that is not an example for us to follow!
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the european parliament has just voted on a citizens' initiative entitled 'water, a human right'. this initiative was one for which i had been an ambassador in my previous capacity as secretary-general of the confederation of christian trade unions in belgium. by then we had collected almost two million signatures. two million europeans who want water to be accessible to all, who want water not to be a commodity. water is like air, we all need it to live. there is therefore no question of privatising it. on the contrary, water must be available in quality and quantity to all. we must ensure that prices for the first consumers are much lower than those for the large consumers. in any case, the citizens' initiative which was supported yesterday by the european parliament is something important. important for humanity, but also important in terms of democratic credibility. it is now up to the european commission to implement what is contained in this citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ two million europeans are calling on the european commission to treat water as a public rather than a private good through the right2water citizens' initiative. the environment committee of the european parliament adopted a resolution endorsing the citizens' initiative and calling on the commission to oppose the privatisation of drinking water supplies. drinking water is not a commodity, it's a human right. it is important that the european parliament makes this very clear. the european commission too often pushes for privatization through competition rules, trade agreements such as ttip or in the demands for financial aid to greece. i am very glad that we voted against the centre-right resolution and supported the resolution of the committee on the environment. the conservative resolution of the christian democrats, liberals and ecr removed criticism of plans to privatise water supplies as part of aid programmes for countries in financial need. it removed the call to exclude water supply from the competition rules for the internal market and the call to exclude water supply explicitly from liberalisation provisions in trade agreements such as ttip, tisa and ceta. she also removed the call to enshrine water as a human right in the european water directive and advocates public-private partnership.
the rapporteur. madam president, you said four minutes, sorry for the joke. madam president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office, i share your relief, at any rate for 2015 and 2016 as regards payment appropriations. last year we spent almost all of the budgetary authority's negotiations with the commission trying to find a solution to the dramatic problem of payments. now, the situation is not good for 2015. she's bad, but she's stable. it's going to get better in 2016, but it's not going to last. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. with regard to the 2016 budget, mr president-in-office, we have three main priorities which i believe are shared by almost all political leaders: the need to stimulate growth, the need to deal with the unprecedented wave of refugees seeking protection in our territory with humanism and efficiency and, you have forgotten this today but i imagine it is not voluntary, the need to remain alert to the terrorist threats that continue and will continue to weigh on us. i shall not talk much today about this third challenge, except to remind you of the need to strengthen the human and technical resources available to the union's bodies, such as europol, eurojust, the eu-lisa agency, which play a very important role in the exchange of strategic information to combat terrorism and prevent new attacks. we believe that the resources you have provided at council level and even at commission level are not sufficient to ensure that these bodies are as efficient as possible. that said, the major and most urgent problem we face today is the unprecedented influx - as you said - of refugees seeking protection in the territory of the union. we have been pleased to hear statements by mr juncker and a number of other politicians whose views we share - i am not talking about mr orbán - but, mr president, we must follow the budgetary means. the commission's draft budget for 2016 provides for an increase of eur 169 million compared to 2015, but this will not be enough. this will not be enough, especially as the cost of distributing or relocating refugees will skyrocket. if mr juncker announces tomorrow his proposal to add 120 000 beneficiaries to the 40 000 already planned, it will be close to 960 million euro that will have to be mobilised to comply with the provisions of article 18 of the regulation establishing the asylum, migration and integration fund. so don't think we're going to get away with this. one last word, madam president, and i'll be done with this. i regret, as does my colleague josé manuel fernandes, the rapporteur, that the council has again felt the need to reduce certain budget lines for the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility, whereas, according to all the information in our possession, these lines are the subject of proposals 36 000 for horizon 2020 alone for the period 2014-2015 which unfortunately cannot be accepted because of the conditions you have created. i think that's a profound mistake.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum seekers are not forced to return to their country of origin. and those conditions are equally important to all of us. first of all, measures must be taken to better guard our external borders. i am thinking here of the establishment of hotspots and the associated effective return of economic migrants. secondly, the european commission should amend the qualifications directive to allow eu member states to have a strong activation policy. thirdly, the distribution of asylum seekers should be fair and thus take into account, inter alia, already processed asylum applications and historical migration flows. the current redistribution parameters do not meet this requirement. they place the responsibility again on the western european countries which have so far made the greatest effort. again, i ask myself: is this what we mean by european solidarity?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i congratulate the commission and our rapporteur on the quality of the work that has been done. like many of my colleagues and, i hope, almost everyone in this house, i support a plan for the solidarity and fair distribution of refugees according to the contributive capacity of the various states. i have three comments. firstly - and this has already been said - there is an urgent need to reform the dublin mechanism, which is the institutionalisation of selfishness to the detriment of the most exposed states on the borders. secondly, on relocation and distribution, there is an amendment which was adopted on the initiative of our rapporteur, and which provides that the preferences of candidates for relocation must be taken into account as far as possible. i think this is important because refugees are not packages that can be dispatched mechanically. thirdly, rather than leaving it to the member states, especially greece and italy, to decide on the distribution of applicants among the different states, i believe that this task should be left to the european asylum support office (easo), because this is the only way to guarantee an impartial and consistent mechanism throughout the union.
the european union's cohesion policy aims to overcome regional disparities within the european union, so that these regions will grow closer together economically, socially and territorially. at least that's the theory. now the practice. the european central bank released a study in the quiet summer months showing that the euro design has caused the countries, and thus the regions in the euro area, to grow much further apart in recent years. whether it's education levels, technological development, labour force participation or productivity. looking at the european commission's regional competitive index, one sees time and again how much more divided this continent is becoming. billions and billions are being thrown at it through regional investment policy to bring together what cannot be brought together. i myself come from the belgian member state where years of financial injections in the wallonia region have not brought the flemish and the walloon regions closer together. - no, it's the opposite. you are now going to try to do the same between regions in 28 member states. you may be able to go on with your ever closer union ideology, but i know better from experience. we, like our group, are voting for sovereignty and independence.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to extend to mr juncker my condolences and those of my group on the death of his mother. maybe next year we can hold a slightly different debate, and perhaps invite the 20 heads of states and government. there is enough room on this side of the house. mr juncker does not have 90 minutes to speak in the council during his state of the union address. this would also enable mr tusk to be here, because we all accept now that there should be a permanent president of the european council, and he has to be here. i know he is in the middle east in ramallah in jerusalem, but he has to be in europe, going from capital to capital to develop a common european policy on asylum for immigrants. that is his task for the moment. here we come to the heart of the problem, namely the lack of political will and – i say to mr kamall – the lack of unity between the member states. what mr kamall was defending here a few minutes ago is a system of ‘pick and choose your strategies’. this amounts to britain doing it one way, germany doing it another way and hungary certainly doing it another way: with a fence and a wall. that is not the way to deal with such problems! a refugee crisis is the collective responsibility of the european union, that is what is at stake. what we have to do is to stop, act and react. our member states are merely reacting, they are not acting. in april we got a strategy for the mediterranean. what did we do? we increased the frontex budget a little bit, thinking that would solve the problem. the problem was not solved! fifty days later, there were all these refugees blocking the entry of the tunnel to britain and what did we do? we gave a little bit more money for tents and for food for these poor refugees in calais and we thought the problem was over and we could go on holiday. well what did i tell you? then in budapest there was the incredible sight of refugees being herded to the train station, treated without any respect. and then we say, ‘let them go, let us put some of them on trains so they can go to austria and to munich’. and we think the problem is over. this attitude is disgraceful for europe because it is not the right way to treat refugees. (applause) we have to recognise that some countries, germany for example, are accepting their responsibilities. in munich they accepted 20 000 refugees in five days. but some countries are saying that they will not accept them for five years and other countries are simply saying ‘no way, not for us’. fortunately, in sharp contrast, thousands of ordinary people have shown solidarity, more solidarity than our national leaders in the member states of the european union. and so my message – not to you mr juncker, i apologise – for the council in particular is: stop saying it is a crisis of europe, it not a crisis of europe. it is in fact a crisis of a lack of europe! let us tell the truth to the people. dublin is not europe. dublin is the negation of europe. all it is saying is ‘it is up to the italians, it up to the greeks to take responsibility’. the commission took a very important step in may by sharing responsibility. i hope that the council can accept, in a matter of days rather than months, a number of these proposals, including perhaps the idea of a legal migration system, because many people are saying that refugees and economic migrants are not the same. this can only be solved with a legal migration system, a blue card, rather than the 28 systems we have today in europe. like the americans have a green card, we have a blue card. but the blue card in europe is the 29th system, on top of the 28 existing systems. it is only germany that uses this blue card. we have to change that, and i was pleased to hear mr juncker announce that in 2016 there would be a package on legal migration to solve that problem. in conclusion, the most important lesson that the council can draw is that we cannot look away from a crisis in our neighbourhood. we will always pay the price for it. do not think that we can have a conflict in the north of africa or the middle east and europe can be unaffected since it is outside europe. we are paying the price for this. we in this house were convinced that the syrian war was not our problem. numerous times we had debates here and people said ‘no, let us do nothing; there is no need to help the democratic forces’. well we created two things: first of all the spread of islamic state and, secondly, a huge refugee crisis. so we need to do something. if this debate concludes by merely repeating our point of view it will not be enough. we need a new initiative within the framework of the united nations to end the bloodshed in syria, to stop terrorism and to make syria safe again for the refugees so that later on they can return to their homes. my plea to mrs mogherini, my plea to the presidency of the council, is that we should call on our representatives on the un security council to launch such a new initiative as soon as possible to end the conflict in syria because it is the only sustainable solution for this crisis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr juncker, i am with you in these difficult times. i also wholeheartedly support the ambition you have shown for the european union. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. that is the union we are discussing today. what kind of union is this when the only growth that has returned to europe is that of exclusion, precariousness, poverty, inequality and unemployment, while the member states are waging fiscal warfare against each other? what union is there when, faced with the plight of refugees, some heads of government have nothing but barriers and repression to speak of? what kind of union is it that the european council becomes the stage for the expression of national egos, mutual resentments and even the humiliation of a head of government by his coalition colleagues? the treaty of lisbon, which i have just quoted, speaks to us of an ever closer union between the peoples of europe. in fact, i see her growing more and more narrow in heart and mind. but the union described in article 2 of the treaty i quoted is very much alive. it lives through all those who, wherever they live, take the measure of the humanitarian, social, environmental and democratic emergency to rise up and act together. i am thinking of all our fellow citizens who are inventing ways of living every day in accordance with the ideal of equality and dignity and respecting the limits of our planet of which we are an integral part. i think about those teachers who are giving our young people the tools to shape their lives. i am thinking of those farmers who want to win the bet to feed us in harmony with the land that gave us birth, of those researchers who are devising just and sustainable solutions to the problems of our time. i think of those entrepreneurs who dare to go off the beaten path to implement these solutions. i think of those bankers who want to put finance back in the service of society. i think about those investors who are turning their backs on fossil fuels. i also think of those artists who, against all odds, want to awaken in us the most beautiful in the human soul. i am also thinking, of course, and often the same, of all those who are resisting the dictatorship of short-term profit at the expense of the exploitation of man and nature by man. in this time of humanitarian emergency - you said so, mr president - what better demonstration of this european spirit than the magnificent citizens' spirit we see flourishing in several member states to welcome and help refugees fleeing death and destruction? the european union, my friends, is the opposite of withdrawing into oneself and rejecting the other. to set europe against the rest of the world is inevitably to set europeans against each other. the union is solidarity in openness, and it is the actors and agents of change who are bringing this ideal and these values to life today. it is with them, mr juncker, and with them, ladies and gentlemen, that we must build alliances, build bridges, and restore hope. if europe loses them, europe is lost. so, faced with the challenge of refugees and migrants, remember, it was a year ago, pope francis in this assembly said that europe has two responsibilities: to welcome and to act on the causes of conflict. mr juncker, you had the right words and you said them last spring. you didn't wait. the proposals you have made here point the way forward: yes, we need a permanent distribution key for refugees in europe. yes, we need legal access routes to the european union, which is the only way to put an end to the smugglers' deadly business. this parliament, mr president - and i conclude - can also propose concrete and immediate action in response to the emergency. on behalf of my group, i would like to make a very concrete proposal: we occupy this parliament for less than 50 days a year. for the remaining 300 days, the 750 meps' desks, which are heated and equipped with individual showers, remain empty and useless. we therefore propose that this secondary residence of the european parliament, which is fully equipped, be used for the temporary reception of migrants and refugees and that plenary sessions be held in brussels for as long as necessary. (applause) i would like to thank this, ladies and gentlemen, is a concrete measure which would enable our assembly to put the word into action and demonstrate in practice our commitment to the principles of solidarity and human dignity. thank you.
europe is in the midst of the storm of the refugee crisis. president juncker has understood this well and is showing true statesmanship by putting forward proposals which can really make a difference but which we also know will not be welcomed by all member states. i fully support juncker on the compulsory relocation of 160,000 refugees, but also on the adaptation of the dublin convention and the need to draw up a list of safe countries. it is now up to the european member states to get away from their 'every man for himself' rhetoric and work out a european solution. the ec has put all its cards on the table for this, it is now up to the member states to make it happen. however, to restore the eu's legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens, it is also essential to put in place a european social agenda. unfair competition, pseudo-independence, posting fraud, mailbox companies and, above all, the lack of a strong european response to these problems, are also contributing to a declining confidence in the eu. i also expect a strong eu policy here. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
for the ecr group refugees who want to enter the eu from turkey via greece via the eastern mediterranean should be pushed back to turkey by sea. this is without prejudice to international maritime law and the principle of non-refoulement, which prohibits returning a person to an unsafe port. the nva delegation believes that turkey is a safe country. if the contrary is claimed, the european court of human rights must rule on the matter. at present there are no decisions in principle on this matter. only the pushback by italy to libya has been examined by the court, which is a completely different situation. moreover, commission president juncker has just said that turkey is a candidate country for eu membership and is therefore a safe country. if that were not the case, turkey would not have been a candidate country.
in writing. have we forgotten, as juncker points out, that 60 million europeans were displaced during the second world war? are we going to 'push back' the war refugees who today are knocking on our doors or arriving in rubber boats to non-european shores? and look the other way? we're supposed to hold them temporarily until the war is over. because it is 'dignified and humane and historically fair' (juncker). the proposals put forward by the european commission are concrete and effective. we fully support these proposals and expect the home ministers to hold their additional consultations on monday without a formal agreement on a fair and compulsory distribution plan for war refugees. and an agreement on a common list of safe countries. we must not be naive and also make our external border controls much more efficient. this crisis is therefore also an opportunity. an effective european asylum policy stands or falls with a common registration at our external borders. juncker announces new legislative proposals for an effective european border and coast guard. the time has come to make a quick start. the time of rhetoric is indeed behind us.
in writing. i do not identify with this policy of the european governments. in recent days, some politicians have indicated that they want to deny refugees certain rights or create special status for these migrants. i think that this kind of statement must be stopped. there is no way that we can go down this road and violate our moral and legal duty to welcome these refugees who come to us to escape the horror. in such a situation, the role of the politician is not to create fears or to entertain fantasies but to act in accordance with the principles and values on which our rule of law is based. europe must shoulder its share of responsibility. people who fear for their lives should be allowed to apply for asylum in their country of origin, to avoid putting their lives at risk by crossing the mediterranean in extremely dangerous conditions. there will be no viable solution without solidarity and humanity. i will continue to fight for these values to be taken into account and respected!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of changing the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine in order to make parliament's external action more consistent with that of the european external action service, but also to act on the union's will to move towards a peace agreement on the basis of two-state negotiation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine, following the recognition of the state of palestine by the european parliament last december. since late 2012, palestine has been recognized as a non-member observer state to the un. the european union, through its high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, has stated that it wishes to play a decisive role in the middle east peace process. it is essential that the negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority evolve so that the rights of palestinians and israelis are recognised. just as it is unthinkable that a lasting settlement of the middle east conflict can ever be achieved without the recognition of a democratic and sovereign state of palestine, like that of israel. palestine must be recognised on the basis of the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of two states, living side by side, in mutual recognition, and the european parliament must fully grasp its role as the representative of the peoples of the union in advocating a two-state solution.
in writing. ‒ since palestine was granted observer status at the united nations in 2013, the european commission, and together with the eeas, switched to using the name palestine. it is only natural that the european parliament should use the same name.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with guinea-bissau because of the importance of its trade relations with the fishermen of the european union, but also because fishing ensures the survival of thousands of inhabitants of guinea-bissau. the agreement also welcomes the improvement in the health situation in the country and the positive developments since the presidential elections in may 2014.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement between the eec and guinea-bissau was concluded in 1980. following several implementation protocols, it was implemented as part of the european union's proposed strategies for the countries of the south, which provide financial and technical assistance to local fishermen in exchange for fishing rights for the european fleet. the european parliament again approved this type of initiative on tuesday. this small island off the west coast of africa has almost 1.4 million people, most of whom live below the poverty line, with one of the lowest gdps in the world, and the coup d'état on 12 april 2012 has only exacerbated political instability. its economy is largely dependent on agriculture and cashew nut cultivation, hence the need for this diversification brought by europe. in concrete terms, the planned european aid is eur 9.2 million. in return, it authorises many european vessels, such as freezer trawlers and shrimp trawlers, as well as 28 freezer tuna vessels and longliners and 12 tuna seiners, to fish in guinea-bissau's waters.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the value of the eu fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of guinea-bissau as an important instrument for the country's fishing sector, the eu fleets operating there and the export opportunities it could create with europe. however, we abstain on the present report with recommendations and the draft resolution on the implementation protocol, as it is too much a copy of the 2012 implementation protocol which was suspended following the military coup in april 2012. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the conservation of fishery resources. the current protocol does not reflect the new political challenges facing the nva delegation following the upheavals in the country and the difficulties facing the local fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with guinea-bissau because of the importance of its trade relations with the fishermen of the european union, but also because fishing ensures the survival of thousands of guinea-bissauans. the agreement also welcomes the improvement in the health situation in the country and the positive developments since the presidential elections in may 2014.
in writing. guinea-bissau is one of the least developed countries in the world and one of the most indebted. this poverty has been exacerbated by a period of political instability following the military coup of 12 april 2012. since may 2014, the country has been experiencing positive developments thanks to the holding of democratic presidential elections. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau comes at a good time; the conclusion of the agreement should enable the european union and guinea-bissau to strengthen political dialogue, consolidate the reconstruction of the country and revitalise one of the key sectors of its economy. the eu's financial contribution of eur 9 200 000 will support guinea's fisheries policy and strengthen its budget. it should enable the development of the local fishing industry and improve working conditions in small-scale fishing. i welcome the approval given by parliament to the council to conclude this agreement, which is an indispensable tool for reducing guinea-bissau's dependence on the agricultural sector and international aid.
in writing. ‒ we recognise the value of the eu fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of guinea-bissau as an important instrument for the country's fishing sector, the eu fleets operating there and the export opportunities it could create with europe. however, we abstain from voting on the present report with recommendations and the draft resolution on the implementation protocol, as it is too much a copy of the 2012 implementation protocol which was suspended following the military coup in april 2012. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the conservation of fishery resources. the current protocol does not reflect the new political challenges facing the nva delegation following the upheavals in the country and the difficulties facing the local fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol, which promotes sustainable fishing and a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, and which establishes a mechanism for sustainable resource management.
in writing. the cape verdean archipelago remains economically vulnerable despite its enormous potential in the fisheries sector. the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and cape verde will strengthen policies for sustainable fisheries and good governance. in addition to the payment of a total amount of eur 1 050 000 for access to fishery resources and eur 1 200 000 for fees due by shipowners, this agreement and its protocol provide for the payment of eur 275 000 annually for the first two years and eur 250 000 for the last two years to support the cape verdean fisheries sector. this financial contribution will help to revive economic growth in cape verde. it is an opportunity for both partners to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation in the fight against illegal fishing, the management of fisheries resources with a focus on improving the health quality of fishery products and promoting the development of small-scale fishing.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of a new protocol under the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde. the agreement, signed in july 1990, provides for fishing opportunities for european vessels in the territorial waters of the republic of cape verde in return for financial aid. this seventh protocol covers a four-year period for this island state, which since 2008 is no longer one of the least developed countries (ldcs) benefiting from a special tariff preference system. despite this change in status, the archipelago, comprising ten islands and five islets, has a poorly diversified economy, increasingly based on tourism. the financial aid, amounting to eur 3 300 000, will enable the country to revive its economy while allowing sustainable exploitation of resources, with particular attention being paid to the capture of sharks, which are very common in this part of the atlantic ocean. in practice, this protocol provides for increased fishing opportunities for large european vessels: 28 purse seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol, which promotes sustainable fishing and a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, and which establishes a mechanism for sustainable resource management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar which provides, among other things, for the financing of a fisheries observation programme in madagascar because of the importance of this sector for the malagasy economy but also for european fishermen.
in writing. the development of fisheries, which is one of the key economic sectors of madagascar, is an essential instrument for its sustainable economic growth. the partnership under this agreement will promote the fight against the waste of stocks, the creation of new opportunities for growth and employment in madagascar's coastal regions, the transfer of autonomy and the decentralisation of decision-making in this sector. i welcome the approval given by parliament to the council to conclude this agreement, which is an opportunity for the european union to encourage madagascar to make efforts to comply with the acp-eu partnership agreement, in particular article 9 thereof on human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. this agreement will help to employ local fishermen and promote fishing opportunities that promote the processing of catches in madagascar. the agreement is an indispensable tool for enabling the malagasy citizens and the population of neighbouring countries to benefit from the benefits of the gradual opening of markets and the tremendous added value of globalisation in terms of development.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the eu has concluded some 20 fisheries partnership agreements with countries of the south. they all have a common objective: financial and technical assistance to local fishermen in exchange for fishing rights for the european fleet. a concrete example is given this afternoon by the positive vote of the european parliament on the fisheries agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community. because although the island of madagascar is a huge territory, the fourth largest island in the world, its economy is underdeveloped and diversified and is based primarily on agriculture, livestock and fishing. european aid is therefore essential, amounting to over eur 6 million for the four years of the partnership agreement. in practice, the latter authorises 94 vessels, including 40 sen­dars and 54 longliners, to fish up to 15 750 tonnes of fish in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar. it is also important that this fisheries agreement includes a biodiversity component through monitoring of fisheries activity and mention of vulnerable and protected species.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the new eu-madagascar partnership agreement. the agreement includes fishing opportunities for 94 eu vessels (from spain, france, italy and portugal): 40 sen­dors and 54 longliners of various sizes. it is planned to catch 15 750 tonnes of fish in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar. in total, the agreement provides for a counterpart of eur 6.1 million from the european union to the republic of madagascar during the four years of validity of the partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) is of great importance to european trade, which accounts for 22% of world trade. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation to amend the marrakesh agreement to simplify and harmonize procedures in international trade. this will facilitate the implementation of the tfa for developing countries through special and differential treatment, and will also allow for technical assistance from developed countries in certain areas.
in writing. ‒ the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) is of great importance to european trade, which accounts for 22% of world trade. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation to amend the marrakesh agreement to simplify and harmonize procedures in international trade. this will facilitate the implementation of the tfa for developing countries through special and differential treatment, and will also allow for technical assistance from developed countries in certain areas.
in writing. the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto) in 1994 had to be amended in view of the profound changes in the world landscape, the new economic and geopolitical realities. the conclusion of this protocol will thus allow the trade facilitation agreement (tfa), adopted by the wto general council in november 2014, to be incorporated into the wto legal framework. the tfa is expected to reduce the total cost of trade by more than 14% for low-income countries and by more than 13% for upper-middle-income countries by simplifying the movement of goods across borders. the tfa will also help to drive forward the process of 'active integration' through a series of provisions aimed at speeding up the movement, release and clearance of goods, the use of electronic payment, the easing of formalities and documentation requirements, the standardisation of border procedures, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu empowering austria, belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention. this accession contributes to the improvement of the internal market in the field of transport.
in writing. my vote is intended to contribute to the objective of harmonising contractual and inland navigation standards in europe and to the proper functioning of the internal market. belgium had already ratified this in 2008 but was still in an illegal situation which now requires europe to give authorisation to belgium as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution which authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and the republic of austria to accede to it. the budapest convention entered into force in 2005 and contributes to the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and standards for inland navigation in europe.
in writing. ‒ despite the continuing flows of refugees, some member states still refuse to allow european coordination and a fair distribution of these people seeking protection within europe. greece, italy and hungary are overwhelmed with asylum applications. other member states do not want to take in refugees at all and are thus denying their solidarity with their european neighbours. such an attitude is unacceptable and a common european response to this situation is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report which underlines the need for solidarity between member states to respond to the challenges of migration. the rapporteur stresses that the proposal to relocate 40 000 refugees from italy and greece to other member states is a first step but will obviously be insufficient in view of the number of migrants arriving daily in certain countries of the union. it therefore calls for a deepening of this intra-european solidarity. the resolution also stresses the need and urgency of offering dignified reception conditions to migrants and of taking into account certain elements in the country of relocation (family, language, etc.). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the transport of dangerous goods.
in writing. only an ambitious european solution to the migration crisis will ensure a solidary and sustainable management of the phenomenon. states like greece and italy cannot manage the entire flow on their own. this is a collective responsibility. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to the establishment of a relocation mechanism for 40 000 migrants currently in greece and italy. i regret, however, that the member states have not succeeded in establishing a mandatory allocation mechanism. this mechanism will soon be consolidated by a new commission proposal which aims to distribute an additional 120 000 asylum seekers across europe, not only from greece and italy but also from hungary. these mechanisms are now partly responding to the emergency but can only be the first step towards a permanent european mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes temporary emergency measures to relocate an initial number of 40 000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other eu countries over a period of two years. i also supported the provisions for increased solidarity and the establishment of a fair and equitable relocation mechanism. i also had the opportunity to deplore the fact that the regulation was not suspended and that the reference to the first country of entry into the union was not deleted.
in writing. ‒ the n-va is in favour of a total approach to the asylum crisis: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. the n-va therefore voted against the unilateral and inadequate commission proposal and the accompanying ep resolution. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013). the eu will also continue to act as a brake on a coherent national policy on integration, activation and participation. finally, the text contains an unfair distribution key for the distribution of asylum seekers, again asking western europe to make the greatest effort. the nva is in favour of a fair and workable system of permanent compulsory distribution. the temporary system that has been voted on does not meet those conditions. we are also calling for a comprehensive approach, more than ever, in the light of the state of the union address.
in writing. ‒ europe continues to face a number of challenges related to the economy, climate, environment and society at large. the report stresses that most of these challenges have a strong urban dimension. they are mainly manifested in and around cities (e.g. poverty, social and spatial segregation, environmental degradation) or are solved there (efficient resource management and carbon neutral economy, economic development and innovation, social innovation and integration, etc.). the rapporteur notes that, although the role of cities in economic, social and cultural development is recognised, the policy response at european and national levels has been slow and fragmented, with many sectoral initiatives but little integration. it stresses that more and more people feel it is important that cities are sufficiently involved in the design and implementation of eu policies and that these are better adapted to urban realities. this change in mindset has resulted in calls for an eu urban agenda from a wide range of stakeholders at local, national and european level, which are echoed in this report which i have approved.
in writing. as an antwerp resident, i think it is important that my city is also more closely involved in european policy-making. better coordination between different policy initiatives and grant programmes is important. cities are a suitable place for economic growth, jobs, social inclusion and sustainable development. they need to work together more harmoniously and support each other.
in writing. land use planning is purely political in nature. urbanization is transforming the very structure of states and creating a new economic and political institutional framework. cities attract. by 2025, about 75% of the world's population will live in urban areas and 95% of the growth in urban population will be driven by economically weak social groups. the city is not just a territory. it is a political, social, economic and cultural entity that is in perpetual change. it's a living body. it is a place of contrasts where tradition, modernity, wealth and poverty meet. as the congolese writer sony labou tansi writes: "every city has its soul. every city has its own body, its own skin, its own intelligence, its own stupidity, its own monstrous side, its own mystery... "and its own genius. we must mobilise our energies and convictions to inspire new models of collective life and new ways of personal and individual fulfilment. this question of the harmonious balance between the inalienable right of the individual and his collective duty is existential for mankind. it defines the relationship between the freedom of the individual and his duty towards others.
in writing. ‒ 359 million people (72% of the total eu population) live in cities and their suburbs. although the pace of urbanisation has slowed in recent years, it is estimated that 80% of the eu's population will be urban by 2050. in view of these figures, and also of the importance of cities in economic, social, cultural and environmental development, the european commission has wanted to launch a debate on the urban dimension of european policies and on the main features of a possible future urban programme of the european union. the debate will focus on the need to set up an eu urban agenda. in response to this request, i voted today in favour of a report which calls in particular on the commission to present a communication setting out the features of the future european urban programme. this communication must be done in close cooperation with various stakeholders, including the social partners. like parliament, i invite the commission to identify major urban challenges in collaboration with stakeholders, to appoint a policy officer to set the strategic direction and to appoint a special eu urban policy coordinator.
on behalf of the alde group the israeli-palestinian conflict, the oldest in the region, as you yourself said, mrs mogherini, often gives me the feeling of an eye for an eye, and i would like to refer you back to gandhi, who said long ago: "an eye for an eye makes the world go blind". but here in this hemisphere we cannot be. we must not be blind to what happened there and what is still happening there every day: settlements, high walls and barbed wire, children who can't go to school, rockets from gaza and bombs from israel. i've been there, and i've seen it. and i should tell you this: it's a shame that this is still going on in 2015. i've rarely seen a conflict that touches so many people, that makes so many people choose in a camp. we have to do it in our groups. and that is why i would like to congratulate and thank the coordinator. we had four hours of negotiations yesterday and i am very pleased that we have reached an agreement today. mrs mogherini, we spoke this weekend in luxembourg and we had a long debate. you have been working for about a year now, and i think you have done an excellent job. it is as mr brok said: you have shown by your agreement with iran that you are a lady with courage, with strength. you've gained a lot of trust. but of course we are also placing a heavy burden on your shoulders and we hope that you will do your utmost to bring about a solution to this conflict. i would like to refer to the debate this morning, where president juncker did put a very strong emphasis on tackling the asylum and migration crisis. i can't help but hear it a lot around here: aylan, the little boy who found death. i just want to say: aylan has many friends and many parents who also want to live in peace. let us put our backs into it, let us use common sense, let us rally everyone behind it. mrs mogherini, you have our support to go to new york and make sure that the two sides come to a solution. good luck with that.
we are faced more than ever with a complex situation in a very wide region where different conflicts are interacting and aggravating each other. and you are right, mrs mogherini, in that regional context, the oldest conflict is the piece of the puzzle you have to start with. and i therefore welcome your intention to play an active role on behalf of the european union: we need to build a regional framework, build trust to allow those parties to cross the bridge. we are fully in favour of a two-state solution, with israel and palestine living side by side. the recognition of a palestinian state is necessary and only makes sense through negotiations with israel, with the support of the international community. i would like to wish you, mrs mogherini, much courage and energy in your new active role in mediation to find a consensus that is in line with the balanced and nuanced approach that has been adopted in the past. i think it is important that you have the full support of this house of representatives, and we certainly do.
madam president, we are concerned about the middle east and this morning's discussion of migration policy has reminded us of how close this region is to europe. she also reminded us that the european union has an important role to play in conflict management. so the failure for over 40 years to bring the peace process to a successful conclusion in the context of the israeli-palestinian conflict has led to blatant injustice towards the palestinians but also insecurity or fragile security for the israelis. according to the united nations, and as several of my colleagues have said today, life in the gaza strip will be impossible within five years, and this is due to the many wars and blockade policies that have been carried out. the policy of successive israeli governments towards the west bank, the settlements and also the checkpoints are policies of humiliation towards the palestinian people. we must therefore, of course, as europe, react to these situations and react in a constructive way, of course. what tools do we have today? we have a number of proposals in these resolutions, including proposals on labelling, which do not constitute a boycott but simply seek to enforce the rules and the law, including by the israeli government.
mr president, madam high representative, i am a firm supporter of the agreement with iran because i believe that a calculated risk in favour of non-proliferation is far preferable to the risk of nuclear escalation and the major risks that would result from adventurous war operations. that said, i also want to be clear on another issue. this agreement is not a badge of honour that the european union and its member states would give to the ruthless mullahs' regime. this regime that gags, imprisons, executes, hangs by the neck - if i dare say so - i hope the iranians will get rid of it very soon and that we will support those who are fighting for the advent of a free and democratic iran. madam high representative, i must confess that i was a little embarrassed by the pitiful list of ministers who turned into business travellers in tehran as soon as the agreement was signed. we expect much more from you. you are the face and voice of europe in the world. there are many people in iran and elsewhere who expect you to take decisive action to ensure respect for human rights, the dignity of the individual and the basic principles of democracy. you won't disappoint them.
the inclusion of disabled people in the labour market is absolutely necessary from a purely economic point of view. it's not just about our social or ethical responsibility. no, i'm not going. it's the economy, stupid. in fact, the number of people with disabilities seeking work is twice as high as that of other jobseekers. this is despite the fact that their specific skills and talents could contribute to greater diversity in teams and companies. employers need to realise that if they fully exploit this untapped potential, their companies can build up a competitive advantage. as long as vulnerable groups such as people with disabilities are excluded, there can be no question of a truly competitive and inclusive labour market. after all, so much talent is being lost. considering the aging tide that's coming down on us, it's a real shame.
many of the findings in the reports on entrepreneurship and the labour market are correct. the differences in unemployment rates in the european union, and even more so in monetary union, are gigantic. in spain and greece, more than 25 out of 100 people are in favour of this labour process. youth unemployment is still at a record high of 50 percent. it's a good thing to be in a competitive job market. but you are ignoring the root cause of these problems, which is and remains the whole euro story. the south is being charged for this today, and since the euro is a straitjacket around these countries, it is impossible to restore competitiveness and therefore to restore employment structurally. a single currency area requires a high degree of labour mobility. it is very small or nonexistent in the eurozone, because we speak different languages, we are different peoples, and the eu is inevitable and thank god it is not one country. so you can talk about entrepreneurship and social innovation all you want. until the foundations of the failed euro are reversed, all this will remain a measure for nothing.
mr president, the precariousness of employment is a growing concern. it has multiple origins. firstly, there are the effects of the crisis we are going through, but it is also the consequence of the changes in our economies and the evolution of management methods, especially in the largest companies. the lack of economic predictability and the flexibilization of work are important components of this. this precarious situation takes various forms, such as the development of parttime work, fixed-term contracts and the use of temporary jobs. it also takes an illegal form, illegal through undeclared work or the proliferation of fake self-employed. these fraudulent practices must be firmly combated, in particular by the effective establishment of the platform to combat undeclared work, by strengthening and coordinating social inspectorates, and by setting up and implementing a social europol, a european social inspectorate. in the case of atypical contracts, it is essential to provide for measures to secure career paths. the training throughout life is, from this point of view, a decisive factor. finally, the fight against job insecurity, the fight against fraud and measures to safeguard careers must be an integral part of the social foundation mentioned this morning by the president of the commission. if the european union wants to achieve triple a, and it must, it must rise to the challenge.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would first of all like to thank the commissioner very much for his comments. however, i think that we should go to the core of the issue. the core is that our healthcare systems were developed in a previous century when people mainly died from malnutrition and infections. but now we see people suffering from chronic diseases, requiring years of innovative treatment. healthcare spending in the eu has grown by nearly 50% since 2000, to almost 12% of european gdp, and it will continue to rise. nor is it only drug pricing which is to blame. this means that we have to look fundamentally at how we run our healthcare systems if we want to keep them open, qualitative and affordable for everybody. i have heard many good proposals coming from the commissioner’s side. the commission is trying to coordinate, invest and exchange information, setting up networks and sharing best practices, but this will not result in the changes that we really need. therefore, i would like to make three concrete proposals. first of all, there are major differences in healthcare spending between member states. the european semester could serve as a tool to monitor healthcare quality, organisation and spending. recommendations per member state and follow-up of implementation of best practice by the commission would then be key. secondly, the world health organisation (who) has estimated that 20% to 40% of healthcare budgets are wasted due to inefficiencies. so we have to keep a competitive edge when it comes to innovation. this means creating a simplified, stable and favourable environment for investing in healthcare, ranging from drug development to e-health applications to prevention strategies, bringing down the cost for the whole system. thirdly, i want to make a very concrete suggestion as to where the eu can really provide added value. it is in the field of rare diseases and orphan drugs. i call for the establishment of a european rare disease fund which would harmonise the health technology assessment procedure, making it easier for companies to enter all european markets and obtain reimbursement. the combined member states would have a stronger negotiating position over the price and the fund would guarantee access for all patients suffering from a rare disease to the most novel and innovative treatments. the rare disease regulation is a decade old so let us finish this work. we have to change our thinking about healthcare and the way that we look at european healthcare systems, so i count on the commission to lead the way. i think that we will support you in many aspects.
- a writer. many of us today are wearing a yellow ribbon to show that we want to see estonian officer eston kohver home as soon as possible, home in estonia. it is unacceptable to abduct someone from the territory of a neighbouring country, detain him in violation of international law and fundamental rights and sentence him to an unreasonable prison term. the russian authorities' actions cannot be tolerated. yet it is becoming more and more of a daily practice. in total, at least 10 ukrainian prisoners are illegally detained in russia. some were abducted, like nadia savchenko. sometimes, as in the case of film director oleg sentsov, they face long prison sentences in very poor conditions. the kremlin must know that we will never forget any name. the actions of the russian authorities are symptomatic of the general deterioration of the human rights situation in putin's russia. i think that those responsible for the illegal detention of these people and the violation of their rights should be put on the sanctions list.
author. on april 16, the sumi mountain in angola turned red with blood. the arrest of a popular cult leader would have resulted in hundreds of deaths. the testimony is shocking. the complete absence of this drama in the western media suggests that the regime of president dos santos wants to make the events forgotten. this is not surprising, because the persecution of human rights activists in angola is disturbing. criticism of the president is tantamount to sabotage and terrorism. possession of a computer is suspect, reading books is suspect. i call on angola to respect the constitutional rights of the imprisoned activists, to annul the conviction of writer rafael marques and to allow an independent investigation into the massacre on mount sumi. and, commissioner, the eu must also look at itself. it seems that we are faced here with the limits of the eu's approach to the region. or is it normal for a president who has been in power for 35 years to silence the opposition and conduct a reign of terror?
in writing. ‒ this report, which i approved, stresses that it is essential to encourage investment to break the vicious circle in which europe is trapped: low inflation and low growth, which limit government revenues, and high unemployment, which increases government spending. we must now concentrate on the implementation of investment projects in the real economy. the strategic question of flexibility for voluntary contributions and for national co-financing and the quality of the investments which are to finance long-term projects are essential to the reorientation of europe. these projects should support convergence of economies, ecological transition, innovation in smes, infrastructure, digital, education and social, and accelerate the creation of decent jobs.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that all parties in europe need to be looking in the same direction if we want to achieve growth and jobs; local, regional, national and european. the report highlights that regional disparities remained high and that the cohesion policy objective to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities, had not yet been reached everywhere. we need to coordinate and create consistent regional policies to avoid being counterproductive at a european level. vice-versa european initiatives such as the efsi should not undermine regional coherence. in addition governance is key to ensure effective and efficient implementation with the involvement of local and regional levels. in this respect we called for a substantial in-depth medium-term review of objectives and funding levels. last but not least we called for the commission to come up with a favourable regulatory framework for smes (with a key role in job creation) to promote smart-growth, digital and low carbon economies and to focus on youth unemployment.
in writing. growth must not be an objective at any cost, resulting in unsustainable policies, excessive levels of debt, which undermine employment and social protection. it is our responsibility to give everyone the means to work, create and be an entrepreneur. reform of the labour market is therefore essential to create more and better jobs. we live in an increasingly competitive world that requires a quality education. the manufacture of mid-range products will no longer find a market and the low-skilled will be increasingly marginalised. we must act now and offer training programmes to the unskilled. businesses and social organisations need to anticipate changes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on 'investing for jobs and growth: promoting the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union'. the european parliament has voted to approve a new budget for the european union for the period 2007-13 which will cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. one criticism i would like to make of this policy is the delay in payment by the commission. implementing a large-scale policy with a large budget only makes sense if the aid arrives on time. i therefore strongly urge the commission to do everything possible to honour these outstanding invoices. the new governance principle means that funding can now be suspended if a member state does not comply with the recommendations made in the economic governance process. in this respect, i am of the opinion that this means of pressure should be considered only as a last resort.
in writing. ‒ in view of the major challenges posed by the active ageing of the european population, strong political commitments followed by concrete actions are needed to ensure social inclusion, active participation and well-being for all generations. the sustainability of public pension schemes, unemployment among people over 50 and discrimination against the elderly are all aspects of the phenomenon of active ageing which must be the focus of our concern. sharing the view that the european commission must make more concrete progress towards the objectives set after the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations, i support this report and the initiatives to establish new networks for sharing resources, projects and ideas between the private sector, the public sector and civil society.
in writing. by 2060, one active worker will be replaced by one retired worker. under the same policy, i understand. therefore, 'active ageing and solidarity between generations' was chosen as the central theme for the european year in 2012, with the aim of raising awareness among policy-makers and opinion-makers of the opportunities of, and mobilising them for, active ageing policies. people stay fit and healthy longer. this means that these social advances should no longer be seen as a burden but as an enrichment for our society. older people are a full-fledged population and their continued participation in public life should be encouraged. therefore, policies should be put in place to address the worrying phenomenon of older people's unemployment and to keep this vulnerable but experienced group of workers in the labour market, for example by developing programmes such as 'generation mentorship', but also for maintaining a good quality of life and standard of living. many citizens are committed to socially valuable causes alongside or after their professional careers. the voluntary work and the social value of this citizen participation should therefore be more appreciated. finally, active ageing also means ensuring that people have good access to lifelong learning, healthcare and social services.
in writing. ‒ active ageing tends to enable older people to remain healthy for longer and to optimise their participation in society. improving access to healthcare, long-term care and social services is key to achieving this, despite the willingness of some to cut back in these services in order to cope with the crisis. to raise public awareness of the importance of active ageing, the european union decided to make 2012 the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. a report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the 2012 european year for active ageing was discussed in parliament today. on the positive side, the report highlights the mobilisation of stakeholders around this issue and the increase in the number of initiatives promoting active ageing. however, the establishment of new networks for sharing resources, projects and ideas between the public sector, the private sector and civil society has rarely been achieved, according to the report. i share these views and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the greens for the report on the european year for active ageing and intergenerational solidarity (2012) because it examined both the shortcomings and the successes, which is important to do better in the future. this has enabled the mobilisation of relevant actors, but has failed to build new networks between the public, private and civil society sectors to share resources, projects and ideas. the involvement of the social partners varied and was nil in private enterprises. the project was approved late and had a very small budget. it is important that older people should not be seen as a burden on the economy and society, but should have added value through experience, achievements and knowledge. the policy of viewing active ageing as an economic instrument (employment of older workers) is rejected. member states should take into account the whole life cycle and guarantee individual and adequate pensions and the right to age in dignity. the european commission is invited to explore a new eu financial instrument to provide a minimum income for all eu citizens living below the poverty line.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 transport white paper sets out a future strategy for a competitive transport system, with the aim of increasing mobility, removing significant barriers in key areas and promoting growth and employment. as transport is a complex system dependent on many factors, it is important to take a regular stock of its implementation in the form of proposed initiatives and action priorities and to determine the future course of action.
in writing. ‒ transport accounts for 5% of gdp at european level, with the union remaining one of the world leaders in the field. i supported the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport which stresses the need to move towards a truly integrated transport system and a european transport area that aims to break the sector's dependence on oil. the report calls for the promotion of alternative fuels, while recalling the key role of the union in the cop21 conference. i also welcome the proposals that have been made on fair competition in the air transport sector and on the amendment of the regulation on air passenger rights.
in writing. i am in favour of a stronger harmonisation of the european transport system with economic growth, sustainability and fairer competition in transport. it is necessary to create a common european airspace and a faster and more efficient rail network through the fourth railway package.
in writing. the single market must also integrate without delay a network of dense, modern and efficient transport infrastructure, resource-efficient, serving free movement and trade, convenient for citizens and users, able to meet the challenge of sustainable mobility as well as urban mobility. the development of trans-european transport networks must be accelerated, in particular by implementing the mechanisms for interconnection in europe (emi). the fourth railway package to complete the creation of a single railway market was adopted by the european parliament on 26 february 2014. as parliamentarians we have taken care to protect the employment, status and working conditions of staff. if the technical part of the proposal to europeanise the rail network by transferring more powers to the european railway agency is not a problem for us, the political part is much more delicate. it would oblige transport contracts to be put up for competition by 2019. an integrated multimodal approach (rail, inland waterway and land) should be developed.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport that i voted for yesterday calls on the european commission to adopt measures to help member states reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and calls for a comprehensive strategy for the decarbonisation of transport to achieve the objectives of the white paper. as part of the commission's mid-term review of european transport policy, the text calls for co-modality to be strengthened with a focus on the cleanest modes of transport in order to meet the 2030 targets (40% reduction in ghg emissions compared to 1990 levels) and 2050 (60% compared to 1990 levels). the text also calls on the commission to submit proposals to internalise the external costs of freight and passenger transport modes in order to ensure better application of the 'user pays' and 'polluter pays' principles. we also called for increased budgetary allocation, including through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the connecting europe facility (cef) to complete the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by 2030.
in writing. ‒ despite progress, too many inequalities still exist today in terms of equality between women and men. as this report points out, this is particularly true for science, technology, engineering and mathematics careers where women are vastly underrepresented. although almost 60% of university graduates are women, they represent less than 20% of full professors in these courses at the university level in the eu28. i can only support this initiative to promote equal access to scientific and academic careers.
in writing. – i voted in favor of this report as we need to do more to get more women in stem-related (sciences, technology, engineering and mathematics) educational fields and careers. here women are hugely under-represented accounting for just 24% of science and engineering professionals. it was also important for me to reaffirm that equality between men and women is one of the principles on which the european union was founded. unfortunately, women still experience unequal access to research positions, funding, publishing and academic awards. the report asks for the commission and member states to look at a number of positive measures such as to analyse legal provisions with the aim to enforce equal treatment of men and women. we also call for more flexible working conditions for both male and female researchers, allowing them to combine work with family life, and for elimination of the gender pay gap in the interests of gender equality. the commission is to propose a recommendation to member states containing common guidelines on institutional change to promote gender equality in universities and research institutions.
in writing. for too long, inequality between men and women has persisted. i support this report which encourages women to move more towards the scientific community, a community in which women are underrepresented. in general, too often, men are favoured for positions of responsibility, often because of outdated stereotypes and implicit discriminatory standards. it is essential to recognize the abilities of each person regardless of gender issues. even though some locks have been broken, the glass ceiling remains but on another level. we must remain vigilant and take the necessary steps to avoid undermining women's careers.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, analyses the barriers and 'bias' (whether conscious or not) faced by women in their academic and scientific careers. these barriers are numerous and complex, as they are based on various factors, such as discrimination due to stereotypes, but also due to obligations related to motherhood and family, preventing women from pursuing the professional careers they would like to pursue. in recent years, many campaigns have been launched to combat the problems mentioned above. they have put in place effective strategies to promote gender equality. however, the current situation is still largely unsatisfactory. the adopted text proposes that measures be taken by the commission and the member states within the framework of the european research area (era) and the specific programme horizon 2020 to strengthen equality between men and women in universities and in the scientific world.
in writing. ‒ the nva delegation advocates an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, as well as a tailor-made equality policy that takes account of diverse target groups. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. we recognise that people with stem (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) skills make a vital contribution to our labour market and economy. but the causes of the glass ceiling in women's scientific and academic careers are more social and deeper in nature. quotas are not the answer. we have chosen to abstain on this report because of the call for compulsory quotas for women.
in writing. ‒ although more and more women are obtaining higher education qualifications, they continue to face discrimination against men in terms of career opportunities and remuneration. i therefore support, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the equal treatment and empowerment of girls through education. the attitude towards this must change in schools. the aim is to achieve equality between girls and boys at all levels of education, so as to break down unnecessary stereotypes and give girls equal opportunities.
in writing. ‒ given the potential of education in cultural change, investments at all levels of the education system to promote gender equality play a key role. similarly, the school must contribute to developing an intercultural approach to education in mutual respect and through intercultural and interreligious dialogue. i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. – i voted in favor of this report as i believe that every child has the right to the same non discriminative education. unfortunately this is not the case everywhere, especially for girls. here we need to improve measures to apply gender equality at all levels of the education system throughout the eu. we call for member states to ensure that their education authorities guarantee an equal right to education for women and men by actively incorporating the principle of equal treatment into educational goals and actions, thus preventing the emergence of inequalities between women and men as a result of sexist conduct and associated social stereotyping. the commission is urged to ensure that this recommendation be put to the national institutions responsible for implementing central, regional and local education policies, school management bodies and regional and local authorities.
in writing. gender stereotypes and stereotypes of women. they still exist. this still leaves very specific and limited roles for men and women. for example, the labour market is still divided into typically male and typically female occupations. parents, friends and the social environment in which one grows up, but also education and the media, play a crucial role in transmitting, disseminating or breaking these traditional role patterns. in this way, girls are still driven into typically female occupations and find it difficult to find their way into the so-called male occupations. education can play a crucial role in removing the barriers that impede young people's personal development and their empathic capacity for mutual respect. the school has an important role to play in the social, cultural and professional development of girls. to make progress, this process must begin at school at a very early age. in the classroom, the debate on study choice and career orientation should be stimulated. consistent investment in the development of information campaigns and learning programmes to combat gender segregation in the labour market is recommended to increase the number of female students and graduates in science and technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which considers that gender equality measures should be applied at all levels of the education system, including in curricula and teacher training, in order to put an end to gender stereotypes and help bridge the gap between women's education and their professional development. the text of this non-legislative resolution also calls for more investment to ensure quality public education for all.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. we believe that education is the foundation of responsible citizenship, is essential to ensuring gender equality and empowerment of girls, and is a fundamental human right that must be guaranteed for all children. we also advocate an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and a gender equality policy tailored to and focused on diverse target groups. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. at the same time, subsidiarity is also important for the n-va. we are aware of the different levels of policy and the division of powers. in this respect, the present report is problematic, since education is not primarily an eu competence.
in writing. the agreement on the european economic area (eea agreement) is the most far-reaching and comprehensive instrument for extending the economic integration of the eu's internal market to third countries. a well-functioning and effective internal market based on a highly competitive social market economy is essential to foster growth and competitiveness, create jobs and give new impetus to the european economy, and internal market legislation is essential to ensure that it is properly implemented, applied and enforced. i welcome this report, since it again points out, among other things, the existing implementation deficits and the removal of obstacles to crossborder professional mobility in the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which highlights the importance of the eea/efta and swiss trading partners, welcomes the large number of eu programmes in which eea/efta countries participate, while highlighting the transposition deficit in some countries such as liechtenstein, iceland and norway. the report also stresses the strong relationship between the eu and switzerland, but recalls the latter's obligations in terms of the free movement of persons, a pillar of the single market, which requires reciprocity and fairness in its use.
in writing. switzerland is an important partner for the european union. it is therefore essential that these relations be continuously strengthened. today, certain obstacles to this are still present. i am particularly concerned about the growing initiatives to challenge the free movement of people between the two areas. this would seriously impede relations. i am therefore glad that the european union has rejected switzerland's request to review the current provisions in order to introduce the idea of quotas. more than ever, we must remain vigilant and strengthen the dialogue to ensure that this fundamental principle is undeniably at the very heart of relations between switzerland and the european union.
in writing. ‒ switzerland's participation was called into question by a popular vote in 1992, and relations between switzerland and the european union today are based on more than 100 sectoral agreements which allow a high degree of integration of the country into the internal market. however, since the interruption of the negotiations for the participation of switzerland in the erasmus+ programme, the european parliament, through the vote on this report, expressed concern that these measures are likely to have consequences for the mobility of higher education between the eu and switzerland and called on switzerland and the eu to do everything possible to fulfil the necessary conditions for their participation in the erasmus+ programme in order to guarantee reciprocity of exchanges and not to penalise students.
in writing. ‒ europe is once again facing a test. countless numbers of refugees are pouring into eu countries every day. instead of insisting on compliance with the dublin procedure, it is essential to have a common european asylum system to deal with this problematic situation. i welcome the report because it calls for a permanent, binding system based on solidarity and responsibility, through which asylum seekers can be distributed to all european countries.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution, which i endorsed, recalls the need for the union to base its immediate response to the current migration crisis on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility and on a comprehensive strategy to promote safe and legal immigration in full respect of human rights and fundamental values. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that the eu's asylum system is updated. the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. it also reiterated its commitment to open borders within the schengen area while ensuring the efficient management of its external borders and stressed that the free movement of persons within the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european construction.
in writing. ‒ i have given my unconditional support to the emergency measures proposed by the president of the commission to better distribute the reception of 160 000 refugees among the member states. i regret the lack of solidarity of governments towards asylum seekers. the migration crisis we are experiencing is the worst since the second world war. that's why i gave my support. i consider this to be a moral and human obligation. beyond emergency measures, i am also in favour of a permanent and binding relocation mechanism based on a fair distribution key between member states. i am also in favour of establishing a common list of third countries considered safe, which will speed up the processing of unfounded requests. finally, i regret that refugees have no other option than to resort to smugglers and dangerous routes to seek protection in europe. it is urgent that the eu has an effective and harmonised asylum system and that member states put in place safe and legal channels, including humanitarian corridors and humanitarian visas.
in writing. monitoring our borders and welcoming refugees concerns us all. we cannot therefore leave the bulk of the migration pressure, which is our common responsibility, to a few states. this is a practical application of solidarity between member states. in the current humanitarian context, it is imperative to distinguish between refugees and economic migrants. if we must work with urgency and show universal human solidarity, we must also work on the basis of strict conditions with a human face in the context of economic migration. but in no case should we be tempted to demonize immigration in a simplistic way. in the face of atrocities committed in certain parts of the world we must take part in global solidarity. this solidarity must be reflected both externally and internally. other countries, often neighbouring these conflict zones, are hosting the overwhelming majority of refugees. to fail to take our share of responsibility would be selfish and contrary to our humanistic values.
in writing. ‒ we are facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis which europe and the member states must manage with humanism and realism, making a clear distinction between war refugees and economic migrants. this is the balance that is found in the resolution on migration and the situation of refugees in europe, which was adopted by the european parliament this afternoon and which i of course supported. the text follows on from jean-claude juncker's state of the union address yesterday, stressing the need for greater solidarity. in addition to the fair distribution of the 160,000 refugees, mainly syrians, across europe, we liberals want a radical reform of migration and asylum policy based on: - the creation of safe zones in and around conflict zones combined with safe and legal routes within the union; - the deepening of the schengen area by strengthening the external borders of the union. more generally, if europe is to be effective in economic migration this time around, and respond to the legitimate concerns of european citizens, it must do so without taboos and take the example of the countries of the new world: canada, the united states and australia, which have a chosen immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution on migration and refugees, because the european union must go beyond the legitimate indignation to put in place a dignified and supportive migration policy. this is not the time to question schengen, this is not the time to judge each other's philosophical or religious convictions, this is the time to open up, to welcome those who are trying to save their lives, to flee war and bloody repression. i welcome the measures proposed by the commission concerning the distribution and resettlement of asylum seekers in need of international protection. it is now up to the states to prove that the union of which they are members is worthy of its name. the refugee status must be sanctified, but we must also act on the causes of the evil; these murderous conflicts at the gates of europe. the european union must contribute to their resolution by playing a more assertive role. the fight against mafia smugglers, who turn the world's misery into a shameful profit, must also be strengthened. the situation is complex and does not require a single response, but action is urgently needed. it is more than a european issue, it is a human issue.
in writing. ‒ for the n-va, the asylum crisis must be tackled with a balanced overall package of measures aimed at: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the present resolution does not meet the conditions for such a structural approach. that is why the n-va delegation voted against. the n-va is in favour of a europe that is realistic. both the eu and the member states must take their responsibilities. the n-va cannot accept a right to buy-out the compulsory distribution of asylum seekers, which is now on the table. the european union has a responsibility to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected. we need a system where all member states show solidarity in asylum. the same applies to the eastern european countries which receive and expect a great deal of european socioeconomic support but which have so far stubbornly refused to show solidarity in receiving asylum seekers. for us it is clear: for what, hear what.
in writing. ‒ the middle east peace process between israel and palestine has stalled. the eu calls for the immediate resumption of credible efforts for peace and reiterates its strong support for a two-state solution. i therefore welcome the resolution of parliament calling for a new multilateral approach by the eu which takes greater account of the interests of peace and security of both the israelis and the palestinians.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this joint resolution which calls firstly for the immediate resumption of credible peace efforts and welcomes the union's commitment to actively work towards a renewed multilateral approach to the peace process. parliament reaffirmed its firm support for the two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders, with a mutual agreement on the exchange of territories and jerusalem as the capital of the two entities, namely the state of israel, whose security would be guaranteed, and an independent, democratic, united and viable state of palestine, living side by side in peace and security, in mutual recognition, on the basis of the right to self-determination and in strict respect of international law. it stressed that non-violent means and respect for human rights and humanitarian law are the only way to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.another important element of the resolution was to condemn the continued expansion of israeli settlements, which violates international humanitarian law, fuels palestinian resentment and undermines the viability of a two-state solution, and to call on the israeli authorities to immediately cease and desist from their settlement policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu's role in the middle east peace process. this resolution should be the european commission's road map. as things stand, it is regrettable that there is no comprehensive and coherent vision of the eu's engagement in the peace process. the appointment of a special representative for the peace process at the mo therefore highlights the eu's commitment to the region, which can only be encouraged. europe must make the best possible use of its institutional and political expertise in the region to play a concrete political role in the resumption of a credible and lasting peace process. the aim must be to achieve, by non-violent means and with respect for human rights and humanitarian law, a bold initiative that serves the interests of peace and security of israelis and palestinians.
in writing. the palestinian and israeli peoples have a deep desire for peace. they both have the same right to live in their state, on land that belongs to them to develop their country and give a future to their children. this conflict has been going on for decades. feelings of despair, humiliation and rebellion have been engraved in many hearts and minds. but everyone knows that this situation cannot last, because if poverty breeds despair, injustice and humiliation breed violence. political courage is expected of all leaders. the european union must act to achieve a lasting solution in a fragile and changing geopolitical context. it is as john fitzgerald kennedy said, "in giving others the rights they have, we give ourselves rights".
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations with the other groups on behalf of the liberal group, we reached a proportionate resolution which i was happy to support with my vote. the resolution calls for more active action by the european union and maintains its support for a two-state solution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution in which parliament reiterated its deep concern about the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in belarus, as well as the shortcomings identified in previous elections by independent international observers and the active persecution of opposition leaders after the elections; parliament welcomed the recent release of the last political prisoners and considered it a first step towards improving relations between the european union and belarus, but called on the country to move beyond symbolic gestures. it also called on belarus, the only country in europe still applying the death penalty, to join a global moratorium on the execution of the death penalty, which would be a first step towards its permanent abolition.
in writing. ‒ while remaining deeply concerned about the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in belarus, the european parliament, in voting this resolution, welcomed the release of the last political prisoners in the country at the end of august. the resolution calls on the belarusian government to rehabilitate released political prisoners and fully restore their civil and political rights, and recalls that belarus is the last european country to apply the death penalty and that 10 people have been executed since 2010. the non-binding resolution calls on belarus to hold the next presidential elections, due in october, "in accordance with internationally recognised standards" and to allow the opposition to participate in the elections on an equal footing. parliament also reiterated its call on the commission to support, with financial and political means, the efforts of civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations to support the democratic aspirations of the belarusian people.
in writing. ‒ given the current high average unemployment rate, i welcome this report on promoting entrepreneurship, skills and competences among young people at all levels of education and training. relations between schools and enterprises must be encouraged so that pupils and students can acquire practical experience and models at an early stage. the main contribution to this would be the introduction of a dual training system throughout the eu, as is the case in the german-speaking community, among other countries.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of social and solidarity-based enterprises is to achieve their social objective and to give priority to the interests of employees over those of capital. in this sense, they are a key driver in advancing towards the europe 2020 targets on jobs, innovation and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion. the social and solidarity economy provides jobs for the categories of people most often excluded from the labour market. the introduction of national regulations on the social and solidarity economy in all the member states, as is already the case in countries such as belgium, would obviously be useful in this respect. i therefore approve this report.
in writing. europe has long advocated a more inclusive society, in particular through the creation of social enterprises aimed at the development of activities with social, societal or environmental objectives. it has also launched an initiative to promote the creation and development of social enterprises, in particular by facilitating their access to finance. one in four new businesses in europe and one in three in belgium are social enterprises. these companies, which reinvest part of their profits in their social or environmental mission, deserve our full support. they are distinguished by the strong commitment of their employees or partners. productive, supportive and competitive, they have a deep sense of the common good and provide jobs for more than 14 million europeans who have been weakened by the consequences of the financial crisis.
‒ today the european parliament was called upon to give its opinion on a report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. as a strong advocate of the social and solidarity-based economy, this report was particularly important to me. the social and solidarity economy in europe affects 14 million workers (or 6.5% of workers) and two million enterprises (or 10% of enterprises) in europe. the aim of these companies is to achieve their social objective. for example, creating jobs for vulnerable groups, providing services to their staff members or, more broadly, having positive social and environmental impacts. with this report, which i voted for, i congratulate the four member states, including belgium, which have national regulations on the social economy. however, i think it is important to increase the participation of social and solidarity-based economy enterprises in public procurement procedures. i would stress that the social economy could help to reduce youth unemployment considerably by setting up training courses for social entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the eu has limited competence in social enterprise and social innovation and the commission tends to underestimate their importance. the lope fontagne report therefore stresses the importance of the social economy in combating (or avoiding) unemployment. social enterprises often do better in crisis situations. the report stresses the social objective and the more inclusive workplaces, but also the more democratic structures and the fact that the social economy is strongly linked to the general interest of society. the report calls for the eu to step up its efforts to deliver on the social entrepreneurship initiative and to recognise the non-profit sector and its economic actors. a strong link is established with the eu 2020 objectives. i therefore think it is important to support the alternative of the social economy and social innovation and hopefully to make it more mainstream and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a number of reforms which are needed to help create a more competitive european labour market. in europe, unemployment remains one of our most important challenges. at the end of last year, 24 million europeans were unemployed. of these, 11.9 million were longterm unemployed and 5 million were under 25 years of age. the creation of jobs is a top priority. unfortunately, despite some signs of economic recovery, it is still too slow and laborious. the labour market needs to be reformed in several member states and structural reforms need to be pursued, as well as efforts in terms of training, strengthening synergies between education systems and enterprises and stimulating entrepreneurship.
in writing. after the financial and economic crisis of recent years, the economy is gradually recovering. we see this in the careful recovery of employment. nevertheless, the number of young people and those with low qualifications who are unemployed is still far too high. this alde report sets out concrete policy proposals to tackle the causes of these high unemployment rates. this requires structural reforms. the counselling of young unemployed people must be organised in such a way that young people can enter the labour market as soon as possible. in this fast-changing world of increasing globalisation, digitalisation and new technologies, new synergies between education and business can help to bridge the gap between the supply of skills among young people and the increasing demand for highly skilled labour. this will help to prepare young people for the labour market. small and medium-sized enterprises form the backbone of europe's economy. it is recommended that entrepreneurship classes be included in the curricula to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit among young people. by prioritising investment in innovation and new economic sectors and education, we can anticipate closely any developments in future skills needs in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gave its opinion today on the report on 'creating a competitive labour market in the 21st century union: adapting skills and qualifications to job demand and prospects, a way out of the crisis'. many eu member states are faced with a high level of unemployment (9.8% for the eu28). this is a situation which has been going on for too long now and for which europe and its member states must find solutions. unfortunately, it is clear that the current recipes do not work. it is therefore important to look at the revision of our labour market. in an increasingly mobile and flexible labour market, i stress the importance of putting in place a mechanism to secure the career path of european citizens. finally, the report encourages member states to introduce a minimum wage by law or by agreement, depending on national practice. i fully support this request, although i regret that the european parliament refuses to define a european reference level for this minimum wage.
in writing. ‒ in this report, skills are being put forward by the conservatives and neoliberals as the solution to mass unemployment. skills are the new trojan horse of the neoliberal market. but by focusing on skills one-sidedly, we are ignoring structural unemployment, wrong economic policies and the lack of good employment policies that should be producing more and better jobs. by claiming that 'the right skills' will keep you from becoming unemployed, you are simply blaming the victim (the jobseeker). in addition, the eu minimum wage was scrapped, 'entrepreneurship from kindergarten' was mentioned (can kindergarteners still be kindergarteners?) and 'incentives to work' (read: the unemployment benefit is paid to the unemployed person who has been unemployed for at least three years. we greens do not see it that way and voted against this resolution. moreover, we were able to present an alternative resolution which takes the debate away from supply and demand in the labour market and opens it up by denouncing the bad economic policies which fuel unemployment and inequality. our resolution was supported by the socialists and colleagues on the left, but unfortunately it did not pass.
in writing. ‒ these reports, which closely monitor the transposition of directives by the member states, show that the most problematic sectors are transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and the internal market. this monitoring is therefore important in the general interest of european citizens. the rapporteur points out two points which i think are relevant in this monitoring exercise. firstly, it is clear that austerity policies have led to clear cuts in the public administrations and the judicial apparatus of the member states. this can therefore have a significant impact on their ability to transpose european texts which are important for the daily lives of citizens. secondly, we must be extremely vigilant so that the refit programme, whose overall objective is to simplify european regulations, does not cause any setbacks in the protection of workers' health and safety or the protection of the environment. the charter of social rights itself calls on the union to ensure a high level of protection of the health of citizens and the safety of workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which notes in particular that the four areas in which member states have been subject to infringement procedures for failure to transpose in recent years were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues. the text of the report also calls on the commission and the member states to seek consensus at an earlier stage of the legislative process in order to ensure timely transposition and better implementation of legislation once enacted.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, we have to tell the truth to the public: the meeting of the ministers of the interior was a failure. we did not reach an agreement even though, in my opinion, it is in fact a topic that could be decided with a qualified majority, and i am very doubtful that on 22 september we are going to get a deal. in my opinion, it is an issue that has to be tackled at the level of heads of state or government and no longer on the level of ministers of the interior alone. it is not an interior security issue alone. it is a refugee crisis – the biggest that we have ever faced – and i think it is for the prime ministers and heads of state to take the responsibility to come together and elaborate a comprehensive approach for this problem. in that respect, we are now stuck in a debate between visegrád prime ministers, who refuse common responsibility, and mostly western politicians and prime ministers. we have to come out of this debate, and the only way to come out of this debate is not only to talk about this shared responsibility – that is one of the elements, and we are going to vote on this with parliament – but it is to have a broad approach. we also have to tackle the other issues, such as that there is no economic migration policy in the european union, and so economic migrants are abusing it because of the lack of a european union economic migration policy. there is no common border agency. frontex is not a common border agency, it is our people that we take from a number of member states for member states – italy, greece and so on – and they are doing the job, while it should be a mandatory system in which all 28 member states participate. there is also, at the same time – let us be honest – no common policy to be engaged to try to tackle the sources of this refugee crisis, to be engaged to stop the syrian war, to be engaged with more money to tackle the problems in different parts of africa. i think you can organise whatever meetings you want on 14 and 22 september, and then maybe a week later on 3 october, but i think it is time that the heads of state or government under the leadership of mr tusk and mr bettel, as the prime minister of luxembourg, start with a real summit to tackle the whole issue and to have a comprehensive approach. only then, mr asselborn, will you have a chance to convince the visegrád countries: when they see it is part of a global approach, and not starting by saying that they have to take 20 000 or 25 000, and that is all. in my opinion, that may not be the right tactical move. finally, there are two urgent problems we have to face. the first is the funding of the different un camps in jordan, lebanon and turkey. they have no money for the moment: they have to reduce the allowance from usd 30 to usd 13, so there is going to be a huge flow to europe again. my appeal to the commission is that they fund the united nations immediately, on an urgent basis, within the possibilities inside the budget, and that they hand over the money that is necessary in the coming days so that we can find a way to improve the conditions of these refugees in lebanon and in jordan, because there cannot be a new flow. finally, marielle de sarnez and natalie griesbeck, two of our colleagues, went to the hungarian border, and i can confirm what mr pittella said: that what is happening there is a shame. it is shameful that it is happening in the european union. the commission also has a task and a control function on that, and you have to act on hungary.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation and the challenge posed by refugees from war and persecution arouse strong and contrasting emotions in our societies. yes, like all of you, i see, i hear fears. i hear and see the expressions of fear, rejection, even hatred. what worries me is when these reactions open the doors of the chancelleries. when heads of state or government, instead of being the teachers of the challenge we face, feed and flatter these fears. that's what leads to the blockage. that is why it has become so difficult to find a consensus solution in the council. but what i also see in our societies is the manifestation of a momentum of solidarity in a series of member states: citizens who spontaneously help and welcome these refugees from war and persecution. i would like to invite not only all of us but also the heads of state or government to draw inspiration from these reactions to find a common european solution. yes, this solution must include all the measures proposed by the commission. it must certainly include a permanent allocation key. it must also put an end to the dublin system, which is the ultimate anti-solidarity organisation in europe. it must, as guy verhofstadt has said, create legal pathways to the european union. it's the best way to put an end to the smugglers' business. but i would like to call on the commission to show as much enthusiasm and even boldness on the front of solidarity and social justice within the european union as it does today in responding to the challenge of migration. the two are linked because i understand the concerns of our citizens about the additional burden that the reception of refugees will place on our social protection systems in the short term. systems which are themselves under unprecedented strain from rising unemployment, inequality, exclusion and poverty. so i say to you, mr timmermans, and you can pass the message on to mr juncker: when the european social elevator starts to rise again, it will be all the easier for our citizens and our companies to take on board those in need.
measures to combat the migration crisis should focus on protecting the external borders, allow eu member states to pursue a coherent policy of activation, and share the burden proportionately across all countries. the borders of our continent are too porous. the dutch government, of which the socialists are a part, recently made an interesting proposal, modelled on the australian model: systematic return to safe countries combined with a resettlement system. an eu member state can then take people from overseas camps together with the un refugee agency unhcr. it gives everyone a chance to be helped, including the disabled and the poor. there's no more money for human traffickers and isis, no more deaths at sea.
in writing. i do not identify with this policy of the european governments. in recent days, some politicians have indicated that they want to deny refugees certain rights or create special status for these migrants. i think that this kind of statement must be stopped. there is no way that we can go down this road, which would be in breach of our moral and legal duty to welcome these refugees who come to us to escape the horror. in such a situation, the role of politics is not to create fears or to entertain fantasies, but to act in accordance with the principles and values on which our rule of law is based. europe must shoulder its share of responsibility. people who fear for their lives should be allowed to apply for asylum in their country of origin, to avoid putting their lives at risk by crossing the mediterranean in extremely dangerous conditions. in any case, there will be no viable solution without solidarity and humanity. i will continue to fight for these values to be taken into account and respected!
on behalf of the s&d group, in these uncertain times, it is important that we can show that the european union still has added value. i do not want to make too many links between the dramatic humanitarian crisis we are facing and the energy union, but there are some. first of all because energy is the subject on which we must prove during this parliamentary term that europe has added value. but also because the energy union is a holistic approach that takes into account climate, energy security and also social aspects, such as the price people pay. in this way we can ensure that people see a future in the european project and also link it to the climate. i think that's very important. i think it is very important that we have a commission which does what it promises. commissioner šefčovič and his colleagues promised at the beginning of the parliamentary term that the commission would make the energy union work. that concept is now in place and we are currently discussing it at length in parliament to help strengthen it. but the commissioner also said: i have been systematically coming up with packages to actually implement the energy union and since june the first package has been there. that's not an insignificant package. there are some technical files in there, but they're important to support the whole thing. in the introduction you did not by chance pay much attention to the emissions trading system. that is also an extremely important matter for this parliament and for my group, and i am glad that it is there. we are still going to discuss it at great length in parliament, but it is ambitious and it is important that it be there now, in the run-up to cop 21. we are therefore demonstrating that we, as the european union, are also prepared to change our own legislation to make it more efficient. this is of course also true of the other dossiers in the summer package, such as the energy labelling directive, which is consumer-centric and aims to guide consumers towards the right choices. it's not about reglementitis, it's about the right vision. the same applies to the new deal for consumers or the new market outlet. that is a somewhat technical but no less important matter and for our group, again, energy efficiency and renewable energy are at the heart of the debate. i would like to thank the commissioner and i wish us a lot of hard work in the coming months to prove to the outside world that we are pursuing a really strong policy with the energy union.
i would like to refer to what mrs figueres of the united nations said here yesterday in the committee on the environment. she said that europe was now at the forefront of the climate dossier on its way to paris. of course, we can't give up that role. she stressed that we could never be too committed to innovation and technology transfer. that reasoning applies a fortiori more than ever in the ets case. this is not easy for our energy-intensive industry, but at the same time it is also a very great opportunity, provided it is done in a balanced way. we must therefore use the innovation fund more than ever to use all the r & d resources at our disposal in the union to ensure that the competitiveness of heavy industry is not undermined. carbon leakage is and will remain a very important concern. i therefore respect the commission's decision to use free allowances in those energy sectors which are really exposed to international competition. one last note: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, as early as january 2015, i was announcing this crisis as inevitable. inevitable because, although we had not yet got out of the milk quotas, we had already produced 4.5% more at european level in one year. new zealand was up 8.1%, and australia up 2.6%. even though consumption is increasing slightly worldwide, the world is full of milk. and what do i hear? the neoliberal witch-trainers, often from northern europe and elsewhere, tell us that we must find other markets, while the world is full of milk. they tell us that we must be competitive - i point out that in denmark one out of every two industrial farms in the dairy sector is virtually bankrupt - and they advocate that we must always adapt. this is an insult to european farmers, because many of them have already adapted and modernised to meet the more drastic standards we ourselves have set. so there are crises in the dairy sector, in the pig, beef and fruit and vegetable sectors and because liberal europe continues to advocate the destruction of market regulation. so that's what we have to do. here we have some help that is welcome, but it is obviously not enough. new mechanisms for regulating supply are needed to restore decent prices that will enable farmers to live off their labour.
mr president, today hundreds of taxis demonstrated in the city of brussels. their demand: stop the development of the american company uber. with new technology, new practices are developing. some of them are clearly part of the sharing economy, which is bringing a breath of fresh air to the way our society works. on the other hand, other companies, such as the multinational uber, are taking advantage of this new trend to impose new forms of work and services that are totally flexible, allowing them to avoid contributing to the functioning of society, both in terms of taxation and social security. these practices are unacceptable and legislation is needed to regulate and delimit the activities of this type of enterprise in order to avoid the development of an economic model that is socially and socially harmful.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament is made up of colliding planets. the great gulf between the eurocritical knights and the euro-friendly voting herd in this house is well reflected in the various draft resolutions of the groups. the joint motion for a resolution tabled by s&d, alde, greens/efa and ppe is again more of the same. more union, less powers for the member states. even more planned economy, even less bottom-up collaboration from society. the joint resolution stressed that internal problems and imbalances could only be remedied by further integration. this is despite the fact that the ecb itself has produced a study which shows that emu has caused these imbalances. it is therefore the typical pathological attitude of the euro-geeks that is returning here today: your eu project is a complete failure. and in that, you find, strangely enough, a justification for creating even more eu. cynicism without limits. the only thing that counts against this nonsense is a negative voice.
in writing. economic and monetary union must have a social pillar. this means a minimum wage, quality public services, affordable housing, access to basic health care, jobs for young people... at present, the european union's social action is limited, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by the treaties, to 'soft' political coordination on a purely voluntary basis. it would be useful to involve the european union more in social governance. as jacques delors said, we must combine 'competition that stimulates, cooperation that strengthens, solidarity that unites'.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomed the commission's programme on migration, as reflected in the recommendations on the european commission's 2016 work programme, which i voted in favour of. the relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers must indeed be a priority. not only emergency solutions need to be developed, but also and above all a sustainable long-term migration policy, including a permanent relocation mechanism to be activated in case of emergency. other objectives and challenges presented in this resolution are the mobility of workers which the commission is to present before the end of the year, a european definition of tax havens based on oecd criteria, an ambitious climate and energy framework for 2030 and, of course, support for farmers through new market instruments to anticipate and absorb market shocks. i voted against the amendment on the conclusion of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement, however, as we have not yet reached a satisfactory agreement on the progress of the discussions and the protection of european standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i have, however, expressed strong reservations about paragraphs and amendments which, in my view, undermine the values of solidarity or the rights of citizens, consumers and workers in favour of ultra-liberalism. i would like to highlight the work of the various colleagues in the s&d group who have made this text less bitter.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on the resolution before us. we can find ourselves in a great many paragraphs. for example, the nva supports the european commission's ambitions on trade policy, safeguarding and deepening the internal market, the better regulation agenda, energy and climate policy, and a coherent foreign and security policy. the resolution also contains a number of points which are problematic for the n-va. for example, we are opposed to a mandatory common tax base for corporate taxation, the opening up of the multiannual budget, and proposals for more own resources for the eu. finally, many paragraphs in the resolution show a lack of respect for the fundamental principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the european commission presented an overview of its planned activities in 2016. i voted in favour of the amendments which i consider important, such as requests to reduce administrative and bureaucratic burdens, a balanced and fair tax policy, facilitating job creation and an ambitious eu policy on industry and smes, combating the use of tax havens, ttip, launching a defence policy on research, etc.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank you for this initiative. yesterday, in the debate with mr timmermans, we already raised this question of a lack of funding by the european union. so we can fully support this. i do not understand how, when the european union has foreseen in its budget a number of billions to give and to fund the un directly, only a few million has been transferred after such a crisis. so we can give our support to the initiative, and i hope that the whole of the plenary can do so, though there may be some exceptions on the right.
for the greens/efa group mr president, before i speak, i would like to ask those who are agitating in the chamber to show a minimum of respect for the expression of their colleagues. i would of course also like to support the proposal. i'm just getting to my point. just a moment, let me speak. the point of order is that, mr president, we are going to adopt a text today as a matter of urgency. i would like to stress on behalf of my group that if the council were to substantially amend the commission's proposal, i would insist that this parliament and its rights be respected. in other words, that parliament be consulted again. it was a point of order, gentlemen, and instead of shouting, i would ask you to listen first. you got it?
in writing. only an ambitious european solution to the migration crisis will ensure a solidary and sustainable management of the phenomenon. states such as greece, italy or hungary cannot manage the entire migration flow on their own. this is a collective responsibility. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to the establishment of a relocation mechanism for 120 000 migrants. the adoption of this dossier under the urgency procedure underlines the european parliament's willingness to be reactive on this dossier. this mechanism consolidates the one recently adopted at the previous plenary session, which aimed to relocate 40 000 asylum seekers from greece and italy. these mechanisms are now partly responding to the emergency but can only be the first step towards a permanent european mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, meeting in an emergency session, voted today in favour of the european commission's proposal to distribute 120,000 refugees in the eu countries on a compulsory basis. the text proposes an emergency 'relocation' plan for refugees currently in italy, greece and hungary. the text would also see an additional 120,000 asylum seekers displaced from italy (15,600), greece (50,400) and hungary (54,000). the member states, still divided on the issue, are due to vote on the measure on 22 september, after failing to reach a unanimous decision on the issue of distribution, following the failure of the extraordinary eu interior ministers' meeting in brussels last week, which was opposed by a minority of eastern european states. although parliament does not have a codecision power on this measure, its consultation was essential for a decision by the council to be taken. that is why we have had recourse to this vote today under an emergency procedure. parliament's support sends a clear signal to the european ministers of the interior that it is high time to act and finally agree on this second emergency plan.
in writing. ‒ once again, the temporary mandatory deployment plan does not meet our requirements. the lack of control of external borders is not being corrected and europe is still on the brink of developing a national activation policy. the nva delegation voted against and at the same time was surprised by the lack of ambition. the plan leaves existing flows towards western europe completely untouched, as it does not focus on the effective application of existing rules of the asylum and schengen acquis. improving reception conditions, developing streamlined procedures, stepping up return operations, etc. were initially key to solidarity with italy, greece and hungary but are now being greatly under-emphasised. even the so-called hotspots, where easo and frontex would take the place of the reluctant member states, were watered down. we now hope that the council of ministers will adopt a system more in line with the declarations of the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed text. i do not identify with this policy of the european governments. in recent days, some politicians have indicated that they want to deny refugees certain rights or create special status for these migrants. i think that this kind of statement must be stopped. there is no way that we can go down this road, which would be in breach of our moral and legal duty to welcome these refugees who come to us to escape the horror. in such a situation, the role of politics is not to create fears or to entertain fantasies, but to act in accordance with the principles and values on which our rule of law is based. europe must shoulder its share of responsibility. people who fear for their lives should be allowed to apply for asylum in their country of origin, to avoid putting their lives at risk by crossing the mediterranean in extremely dangerous conditions. there will be no viable solution without solidarity and humanity. i will continue to fight for these values to be taken into account and respected!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the operational implementation of the juncker plan (the distribution of an additional 120 000 refugees), with clear commitments for the countries concerned and with the guarantee of rights and obligations for asylum seekers. if the situation in another member state escalates, the redistribution will be reviewed.
i repeat, colleagues, because i cannot repeat it enough: what you are doing in the context of saving your single currency, what you are doing in the context of keeping the greeks on board, is nothing less than the creation of a political unitary economy in which the member states and the peoples of europe will be slowly but surely, step by step, even today, denied the power to define and shape their own socioeconomic future. the peoples of europe are gradually moving towards a situation where their investments, their pensions, their budgets and their infrastructure will be determined and streamlined here in the temples of the european union. what the peoples of europe must learn to see is that this european union is crushing the diversity of the peoples of europe under the guise of the structural reforms supposedly necessary for the stability of a failed currency. what the european union is doing is essentially putting the democracy of free peoples out of action. stop this! that is our message today, not only to the greeks but to all the peoples of europe.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we shall be receiving the king of spain shortly, just a few days after the catalans voted quite unequivocally for their independence. it is not clear at this stage whether and how the spanish king will speak about catalonia, but it is easy to assume that this will be little more than a reluctant madrid tone with which the spanish authorities have treated catalan autonomy up to now. i come from flanders, which was ruled by spanish kings for over a century and a half. i would like to call on the european union not to continue to choose the wrong path and to learn slowly, but rather as quickly as possible, that there is no other way for european cooperation in the 21st century than to recognize the autonomy of parts of the present member states that have become independent peacefully.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to say bluntly to mr tusk that i am getting more and more fed up with the council, not with him personally – be assured of that – but with the institution that he represents. i am saying this is because, first of all, it has taken a very long time for an informal summit to be organised – because this crisis did not start a few days or a few weeks ago. then, what was produced from this summit was a one-page statement. this is all that was produced from an informal summit of the european council on the most important crisis europe has faced in the last decade – a refugee crisis such as we have never seen before. one page: mainly repeating decisions about the 120 000 refugees that have already been taken by the ministers for the interior, and then also pledging eur 1 billion in additional money. i ask myself how many people from syria have to die and how many additional people from syria have to flee to europe before the european council takes a comprehensive, global approach to this refugee crisis, as is proposed by the commission? it is not that you have nothing to work with. a few hours before the european council, the commission decided on a global package: including a new european asylum system no longer based on the dublin regulation; including a new european migration package in which we create one system, a blue-card system, in europe – not 28 systems; and including, perhaps most importantly, a european border and coastguard proposal – that, by the way, mr tusk, the ministers of the interior refused to put in their conclusions on 11 september 2015. they did not talk about it. so i am asking: what is needed? why was it not possible for this european council in its summit to decide on the package proposed by the commission? parliament has already backed this package. so what is happening? why can the european council not overcome these internal divisions? my proposal is very clear, namely that we – the council and parliament – should agree to a fast-track procedure for the commission proposal: to adopt it as quickly as possible, as these procedures are there. secondly, my proposal concerns the external borders of europe. regarding this conflict in syria, is it not time that the european union – you the european council, you mr tusk and ms mogherini – took an initiative? for the moment we are being pushed out. the russians are taking action. what they are mainly doing is bombing – bombing civilians and citizens in syria and the last of the remaining free syrian army fighters. i do not know if there are many of them, but at the moment they are being killed by russian bombs. we are the ones who are facing the consequences of this refugee crisis, not the russians or the americans. they are talking about syria, while we, who will face all the consequences of it, are not taking any initiative at european level for the moment. we actually have three different opinions within the council about this. so take the initiative: call a summit and have 28 bilateral meetings, giving ms mogherini a full mandate and also enforcing no-fly safe zones. the current situation is crazy. i hear people saying that it is not possible and that you need a mandate from the un. no – apparently, to bomb syrian citizens you do not need a mandate from the un, but to protect syrian citizens you need a mandate. such an approach is completely crazy. finally, we also need a new donor conference. there is not enough money in these refugee camps. so, mr tusk, i am counting on you. the 28 heads of state are not going to solve these problems. they are not capable of doing so, as they each represent only a nation. you represent a continent. assume your responsibility. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president tusk, i listened to you very carefully and you are right. i believe that as europeans we must remain proud of what we have built in europe. you are right, even if the european union is not perfect, if our rule of law is still being built, if our democracies are sometimes faltering and need to be strengthened and if our prosperity is not shared. but if i had to choose, this is still where i would like to live, without any hesitation, and it is no coincidence that many refugees and asylum seekers are asking to join the european union. and you're right: to see theocracies teach us lessons in religious tolerance, to see dictatorships teach us lessons in democracy, to see countries that don't take in a single refugee teach us lessons in acceptance, is daring to say the least. what i see, mr tusk, is that most of the countries you are referring to when you say that are allies of the european union, and i would like to hear you say to those states all that you have just said to us. but when you saw mr erdogan yesterday, who we apparently need, when he is putting the press and the judiciary under his boot and starting the war again in his own country, these issues were not discussed. i therefore call for a little modesty on these issues, even though, as you say, we should be proud to be europeans. you said that we should avoid extremes and, once again, i agree with you. let me give you two figures: the european union accounts for 23.7% of the world's gross domestic product, or, to put it roughly, of the world's wealth. the 160 000 refugees whom you have agreed to distribute in europe at the initiative of the commission represent 0.2% of the world's refugees. if we are close to an extreme, it is certainly not the extreme of the wide open door and so, again, i think the european union can do better. i would ask you to follow the commission's recommendations. we have heard president juncker, vice-president timmermans on several occasions from this platform, asking you, asking the member states to set up a permanent distribution key for refugees. i have heard the same people talking about establishing legal access routes to europe to put an end to the deadly business of smugglers. i have heard the same arguments, and i agree with them, for the establishment of a european asylum policy, and there is still considerable progress to be made in this respect. some of them were achieved at the council, but this is only the beginning. so keep fighting.
the european union is now providing turkey with financial support to continue to ensure the adequate reception of asylum seekers. okay, but don't forget about the handicapped people. they are numerous, partly because of the war situation in syria. moreover, they often remain in the camps because they are often too poor to pay for the passage to europe. given their limitations, these people need specific support. sometimes they also need medical or paramedical help. that particular offer is missing from the camps. for example, children with disabilities cannot attend a regular class. for example, deaf children need instruction in sign language, blind children need instruction in braille, and so on. part of the emergency funds allocated should therefore be used specifically to provide a basis of disability-specific support to those people. that is not happening at the moment or far too little. i was able to see this for myself when i visited the zaatari refugee camp and its surroundings in jordan in may of this year. if resources are used smartly and efficiently, the eu can have a major impact on the quality of life of people in these camps with relatively little money.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the abolition of forced labour is one of the eight core ilo conventions which define the basic international labour standards and is considered an instrument for the protection of human rights. however, 80 years after its adoption, the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the objective of this protocol is therefore to remedy shortcomings in the implementation of the legislation and to strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting their labour and to protect and compensate victims of forced labour. the protocol calls in particular on ilo member states to develop a national policy and a national action plan for the effective and sustainable abolition of forced labour after consultation with workers' and employers' organisations. it also provides for measures to protect and assist victims of forced labour. the council decision will allow the member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the union. i can of course only support this report which the committee on civil liberties has unanimously approved.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is a violation of human rights and a violation of the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. to date, it still affects 21 million people, victims of an exploitation that generates 150 billion dollars in revenue a year for those who organize and control it. all forms of trafficking and exploitation must be broken by law and determined action taken to enforce it. the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions that define the basic international labour standards. it is seen as an instrument for the protection of human rights. i have supported this report because the objective of the protocol is to strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting their labour, as well as the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking and in guaranteeing the rights of victims of crime throughout europe. it will also help to combat traffickers.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's approval of the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol to the forced labour convention as regards matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. once ratified, the protocol should make it possible to combat traffickers more effectively. this is a further step towards the eradication of forced labour. it is regrettable that 85 years after the entry into force of the convention on forced labour, this phenomenon still causes victims and is still a scourge from which the eu is not exempt. in the fight against forced labour, special attention should be paid to prevention, with a focus on vulnerable people - including migrants - who are more likely to fall into the hands of unscrupulous traffickers.
in writing. ‒ i wish i could say that forced labour was a practice from another century but unfortunately it is not. the international labour organization reminds us of the sad reality of the situation. today, 20.9 million people are still victims of forced labour worldwide. the figures are particularly outrageous, given that the ilo convention on forced labour of 1930 has been ratified almost universally. it is therefore quite logical that i voted today in favour of the report on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention. the protocol aims to address the shortcomings in the implementation of the convention and to strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and to protect and compensate victims of forced labour. europe, and i can only rejoice, has always promoted human rights and decent work. i therefore invite the member states to ratify this protocol as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the proposal authorises member states to ratify and take action, in the eu's interest, on those parts of the 2014 protocol that fall within eu competence by the end of 2016. the eu cannot do this on its own, as only states can ratify the forced labour convention. this convention is one of the eight fundamental conventions of the ilo (international labour organization) which together form the basic international labour standards and is considered an instrument of human rights. the 1930 convention calls on the member states to eliminate and criminalize the use of forced labour as soon as possible. more than 80 years later, the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the 2014 protocol aims to address implementation gaps and make progress in the prevention of trafficking for labour exploitation and in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in ensuring the rights of victims throughout europe and this report allows member states to do so. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention, 1930, of the international labour organisation as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol as regards matters related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions that define the basic international labour standards and is an instrument for the protection of human rights.
in writing. - forced labor is a disgrace. it damages the rights and dignity of the individual. today, it is estimated that some 21 million people are still exploited worldwide, bringing in an estimated $150 billion a year. i support this report because the protocol aims to take measures to prevent such abuses and because it could help to combat human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with european legislation on the exchange of information, evaluation and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control this psychoactive chemical throughout the union. the illicit presence and manufacture of this substance is documented in several member states and several deaths have been reported in the union. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to follow the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is essential that more active attention be paid to the control of psychoactive substances at european level. there is a wide variety of substances that are legal today and are spreading in european society, in particular through the internet. these are real drugs which represent a real danger to european citizens, both for their individual health and for public health. these new psychoactive drugs and the dangers associated with them are often little known to users. methylamphetamine is a synthetic drug that originated in the illicit amphetamine market. this substance is very dangerous. 21 deaths were recorded in four member states and its presence was detected in 15 member states. harmonised european regulations on the control of this substance would improve cross-border cooperation to prevent it from becoming a legal substitute for amphetamine on the drug market.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the draft council decision to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures throughout the european union. measures against this substance currently differ from one member state to another. harmonisation at european level makes perfect sense, particularly with a view to facilitating cooperation between the law enforcement and judicial services of the member states. the fragmentation of action by member states in this area can only undermine the effectiveness of our fight against drugs. as soon as a new substance appears on the drug market, member states should agree as soon as possible to adopt a coordinated approach to the control of that new substance and the prevention of its use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures and asking the council to consult the european parliament again in the event that it intends to substantially amend the text we have approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. i therefore have little hope at european level on this particular subject. if things change, i will gladly continue to participate in the debate and represent my citizens on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with european legislation on the exchange of information, evaluation and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control this psychoactive chemical throughout the union. the illicit presence and manufacture of this substance is documented in several member states and several deaths have been reported in the union. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to follow the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is essential to adapt the european policy on the control of psychoactive substances. many substances previously considered legal are now being distributed in european society, particularly via the internet. these are real drugs which represent a real danger to the health of european citizens, both individual and public. the substance concerned in this implementing decision is a synthetic derivative of indole which can produce hallucinogenic effects, tachycardia and hyperthermia. between april and august 2012, 24 deaths related to this drug were reported in four european countries, while its presence was detected in nine member states. european legislation on the control of these psychoactive drugs is therefore essential for better cross-border coordination in the fight against drugs.
in writing. 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole is a stimulant substance which may produce hallucinogenic effects. it can be found on the internet or in specialist shops. at present we have very little information on the health and social risks. however, due to the reported deaths, this substance should be controlled. today, only six member states do so. i am glad that all the member states will have to do the same as a safety precaution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures and asking the council to consult the european parliament again if it intends to substantially amend the text we have approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. i therefore have little hope at european level on this particular subject. if things change, i will gladly continue to participate in the debate and represent my citizens on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with european legislation on the exchange of information, evaluation and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control this psychoactive chemical throughout the union. the illicit presence and manufacture of this substance is documented in several member states and several deaths have been reported in the union. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to follow the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is essential to adapt the european policy on the control of psychoactive substances. many substances previously considered legal are now spreading in european society, in particular via the internet. these are real drugs which represent a real danger to european citizens, both for their health and for public health. the four synthetic drugs concerned by this implementing decision are the cause of symptoms such as: hallucinations, paranoia, anxiety, psychosis, tachycardia, hypertension, etc. they have been detected in more than 20 member states and have already caused more than 147 deaths and more than 572 cases of intoxication. european legislation on the control of these psychoactive drugs is essential for better cross-border coordination in the fight against drugs.
in writing. the evaluation by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) identified four substances (25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine) as requiring control measures across the union. further research is needed to determine the health and social risks of these four substances. however, because of the recent deaths reported and therefore as a precautionary measure, we have asked the member states to monitor them and to apply criminal sanctions in accordance with their national legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures and asking the council to consult the european parliament again if it intends to substantially amend the text we have approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. i therefore have little hope at european level on this particular subject. if things change, i will gladly continue to participate in the debate and represent my citizens on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with european legislation on the exchange of information, evaluation and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control this psychoactive chemical throughout the union. the illicit presence and manufacture of this substance is documented in several member states and several deaths have been reported in the union. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to follow the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is essential to adapt the european policy on the control of psychoactive substances. 4,4'-dmar is a synthetic stimulant derivative. it has been detected since december 2012 in nine member states. 31 deaths related to this substance were recorded between june 2013 and june 2014. mt-45 is a painkiller and has been on the market since october 2013. it's mostly sold on the internet. the commission has also identified a number of potential risks to the health of the union population, such as the risk of infection by the virus of the foot-and-mouth disease (fmd), the risk of infection by the virus of foot-and-mouth disease (fmd) and the risk of infection by the virus of foot-and-mouth disease (fmd). european legislation on the control of these psychoactive drugs is essential for better cross-border coordination in the fight against drugs.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the draft council implementing decision on 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. the council, by this implementing decision, intends to invite the member states to subject these substances to the controls and sanctions provided for in their national laws. after assessing the health risks posed by these substances, the commission considered that they should be subject to controls throughout the european union. there is no doubt that concerted action at european level can bring added value in the fight against the use of psychotropic substances. when a substance poses a risk to public health, it is essential that it is subject to control and surveillance throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydrooxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- (1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) to control measures and asking the council to consult the european parliament again if it intends to substantially amend the text we have approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. i therefore have little hope at european level on this particular subject. if things change, i will gladly continue to participate in the debate and represent my citizens on this matter.
in writing. ‒ bulgaria and greece applied for eu solidarity fund assistance after being hit by severe floods in early 2015 which not only caused significant damage to public infrastructure, businesses and private homes and property but also caused damage to the agricultural sector. in view of the scale of the damage, the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund should help greece and bulgaria in the aftermath of the major regional natural disasters that have struck their territory. therefore, i have approved this decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to the eu solidarity fund to reimburse part of the costs paid by bulgaria and greece to repair the damage caused by the severe winter conditions that prevailed in south-eastern bulgaria and central, eastern and western greece in january and february 2015. these exceptional weather conditions have had dramatic consequences. in greece, floods destroyed public buildings, private homes, businesses, agricultural areas and cultural heritage sites in the central and evros regions. in the south-east of bulgaria, heavy rains, floods and landslides damaged dams, communication and road networks, as well as public and private buildings. bulgaria will receive €6.3 million in eu aid and the two greek regions will receive a total of €9.9 million. i hope that this aid will enable the local authorities to take the necessary measures to limit the risk of such disasters occurring again and will help the local population to rebuild.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu solidarity fund will reimburse part of the costs paid by bulgaria and greece to repair the damage caused by severe winter conditions in south-eastern bulgaria and central, eastern and western greece in january and february 2015. in greece, floods destroyed public buildings, private homes, businesses, agricultural areas and cultural heritage sites in the central and evros regions. the south-eastern part of bulgaria was affected by heavy rains, floods and landslides which damaged dams, communication and road networks as well as public and private buildings. bulgaria is expected to receive €6.3 million in eu aid and the two greek regions will receive a total of €9.9 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. it is also europe's role to help countries, and above all citizens, who have suffered the worst, and to give them the tools they need to rebuild their lives and their future.
in writing. ‒ while agricultural products of a particular geographical origin which have certain qualities or are produced by traditional methods may be the subject of unitary protection of geographical indications at union level, the same cannot be said for non-agricultural products. the rapporteur, whose report i have approved, supports the introduction at european level of a single instrument for the protection of indications for non-agricultural products. this would lead to positive economic benefits for local or regional producers, create jobs in less favoured areas and provide consumers with clear information on the origin and manufacturing methods of products.
in writing. ‒ while agricultural products have been protected at european level since 1992, no common legislation has so far been adopted for industrial and craft products. it was therefore logical to extend the protection of geographical indications to these products, which symbolise traditional know-how and local culture and whose usurpation by competing companies cannot be tolerated. that is why i supported the proposal to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. i am convinced that this measure is likely to offer better guarantees to consumers, help producers and stimulate the local economy. the new rules could increase the attractiveness of the product for the consumer and enable the producer to increase the added value of his products. among the 800 products identified by the european commission as potentially affected are several belgian products such as antwerp diamonds, binche lace and mons earthenware.
in writing. i support this report which aims to strengthen trade at local and regional level. the extension of the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products is an essential step for local producers. it contributes to increasing the overall attractiveness of a territory, preserving local identities and promoting their particularities. it is in the union's interest to adopt such legislation in order to protect know-how and the jobs it generates, and to maximise the positive economic benefits. in addition, the geographical indication of products allows consumers to be fully informed of the origin of the product and thus to be better able to make an informed choice.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of the resolution calling on the european commission to extend the protection of geographical indications (gi) to non-agricultural products. if the commission follows up this request, more than 800 listed products, in particular products from the belgian countryside, as varied as the blue stone of belgium, the carpets of tournai, the val saint lambert glass and crystal or the diamonds of antwerp, would benefit from the geographical indication. they would then share this quality label with such emblematic agricultural products as brussels chickens, gaumans pâté, ardennes ham and liège pequet. in europe, the regional products concerned would include porcelain, ceramics, ironwork, weaving and embroidery. all these activities are in the service of quality craftsmanship, which is subject to unfair and illegal competition from imitations and counterfeits. the 15 existing national laws on gi are not sufficient to protect this regional and local know-how. hence the need to create a uniform system at european level. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the development of the eu's energy sector.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution voted today urges the european commission to present an initiative extending the protection of geographical indications at european level beyond what has already been done since 1992 for agricultural products, to include goods produced regionally and locally and craft products (such as the blue stone of belgium or the glass of the val saint-lambert). i welcome this, as it would support local economic development, boost tourism, increase consumer confidence and help to preserve cultural heritage and traditional craftsmanship. the european commission has already identified 800 products in europe that could benefit from such protection. the european parliament believes that this list could be revised upwards. moreover, the products concerned should be easily registered and included in a public register.
in writing. ‒ belgian blue stone, val st lambert glass, binche lace, tournai carpets, antwerp diamonds, mons earthenware and nearly 800 other handicraft products are currently protected in only half of the european countries. parliament called for legislation to establish a protected geographical indication in all member states in order to promote these products and to combat counterfeiting, unfair competition and consumer deception. protecting our know-how means protecting the jobs associated with these mostly artisanal activities and safeguarding our heritage. a european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products would be a real step forward for consumers, manufacturers to protect the know-how and the jobs it generates against counterfeiting, fraudulent use of geographical indications and other unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to extend the protection of geographical indications. it is these geographical indications that make a particular region known and can boost the local and regional economy. local traders and producers are not excluded, and local customs and traditions are not easily lost. this protection will create additional jobs and help to preserve the craft. so i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis has hit greece hard. the social and economic situation has become catastrophic. indeed, the number of greeks at risk of poverty has more than doubled in five years, from 20% in 2009 to over 44% in 2014. the national unemployment rate is 25.8% (february 2015 figures)! wages fell by an average of 38% between 2009 and pensions by 45%. greece is experiencing severe liquidity problems and does not have sufficient public funds to finance the investments needed to stimulate growth and job creation. i therefore voted in favour of a plan which should ensure that greece has sufficient financial means to implement programmes supported by the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. in view of the acute shortage of liquidity in the greek economy and of public funds, it was necessary to adopt an exceptional measure to help finance the investments supported by the european cohesion funds and essential for a sustainable recovery. the conditions for growth must not be unreasonably translated into socially unsustainable policies. it is essential to give everyone the means to work, create and undertake. the role of the state, and therefore of politics, is to ensure an equitable redistribution of prosperity, taking into account the labour factor, risk-taking, responsibility, social justice, etc. we must be careful not to dehumanize society by making decisions that do not jeopardize the future.
in writing. ‒ greece has been hit hard by the financial crisis and has had to and still has to deal with a shortage of liquidity and a lack of public funds available to finance the investments needed to foster a sustainable recovery. in this context, the commission proposal we voted on today in strasbourg provides for additional pre-financing for the operational programmes under the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 under the investment for growth and jobs goal, as well as for programmes financed by the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece. it also provides for a ceiling of up to 100% for the cumulated total of prefinancing and interim payments and for the co-financing rate for the 2007-2013 operational programmes to be increased to 100% for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the questions relating to the financial compatibility of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund, laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as regards specific measures for greece.
in writing. ‒ flanders, where i was elected, was once known for its car assembly. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of road haulage companies. unfortunately, these factories on volvo and audi have since closed. the closure of the opel factory in my home town of antwerp was certainly very hard to bear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of transport, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. flanders is a region characterised by a service economy. but i also see a future for the anchoring of industry. the governments in my country, the belgian and the flemish, must at last reduce substantially the burden on companies and workers.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, germany applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies at adam opel ag and a supplier in germany. adam opel ag suffered greatly from the austerity measures imposed on european countries, which contributed to the fall in sales. since the conditions for mobilising the egf were met, i supported the granting of eur 6 598 623 to workers affected by the banking and financial crisis to help them reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to get back on track with economic growth. the nva members of the european parliament therefore abstained on this dossier.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report to help the declining automotive industry. adam opel ag suffered damage as a result of the decision by the parent company general motors to exclude it from emerging markets. this decision has led to many redundancies in a region where the unemployment rate is already well above the national average. it was therefore necessary to take action to revive the economy in this more disadvantaged region, with a view to restoring economic balance.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament gave its consent to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of 2,692 redundant workers at the adam opel ag plant in germany. this means that the german authorities will be able to benefit from a budget of almost €7 million to implement measures for these dismissed workers. the decisions taken by the head of the parent company general motors, together with the austerity measures, contributed to the dramatic fall in sales at the opel plant. the german authorities have already announced the concrete measures envisaged with this funding: short-term allowance; vocational reorientation; assistance in setting up a business; job search; participation in job fairs; post-employment follow-up and assistance service. during this week's plenary session, a total of €14.6 million will be allocated through the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has a total annual budget of €150 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because the german car manufacturer had closed its plant in bochum, germany, in order to reduce its excess production capacity, as its sales fell by 39% between 2007 and 2013. the closure of the establishment led to nearly 2900 redundancies, and 2692 people could now benefit from the egf assistance worth eur 7 million allocated by germany.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. it is also europe's role to help countries, and above all citizens who have suffered the worst, and to give them the tools they need to rebuild their lives and their future.
in writing. ‒ as regards the closure of car assembly plants in flanders, i have to say the following, in addition to what i said about the german opel plant in bochum. the european union is sometimes playing a cynical role in this matter, with what i would call at best psychological blunders. the european union, for example, managed - at about the same time as the closure of the ford plant in genk, flanders - to take almost 100 million euro in aid measures in favour of a ford plant in - remember - turkey. so you take money from the taxpayer, then distribute it in turkey and more of these kind of beautiful countries and then have to close factories in the eu, partly because of your politics. a decision which you will have to compensate for with so-called european money. it is true that the european union sometimes lacks logic, and perhaps even lacks its own logic (except for the waste of taxpayers' money), and you certainly cannot expect the citizen, who is subjected to all this, to understand the logic of it.
in writing. ‒ in march 2015, belgium applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at ford genk and 11 downstream suppliers and producers. the crisis has hit the belgian automobile industry, with a sharp decline in production of over 15%, while overall production increased by 18.9%. the local economy suffered greatly as ford genk was the largest employer in the province concerned (limburg). i have of course supported the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to the tune of eur 6 268 564 to help workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. the amount proposed in this directive will be used to re-orientate to another job the employees who lost their jobs in 2014 as a result of the closure of ford in genk. ford genk was the largest employer in limburg and it is important that people are helped to find a new job quickly. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps to provide personalised services and guidance to a new job. i think it is important that we can support the economy in limburg with the help of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this dossier provides financial support for the counselling of 4881 redundant employees of ford genk. this can take the form of career guidance, retraining and further training, start-up aid and premiums for new selfemployed people. the support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is complementary to the limburg conversion funds under the strategic action plan for limburg in the quadrant (salk). the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the egf, but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. however, as long as the egf remains in force in its unchanged form, the n-va supports any egf dossier relating to its own member state.
in writing. major changes in the structure of world trade have consequences for employers. after the economic crisis, the belgian automobile industry experienced a decline in production of 15.58%, while world production increased by 18.9%. the automotive industry has undergone numerous restructuring, such as the lay-off of a large number of employees due to the permanent closure of the ford genk plant, which is detrimental to the regional economy. it was necessary to help this company, which occupies an important place in the belgian economy and which therefore employs a significant number of workers.
in writing. ‒ clear support for the former workers laid off at the ford genk plant. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. in concrete terms, this is an amount intended for the 4 500 workers made redundant by the car manufacturer, which closed its genk plant in december 2014 in order to facilitate their job search and more generally their career reorientation. this small financial boost comes after a shutdown that has become inevitable in a difficult economic environment. the belgian automotive industry decreased by 16% between 2011 and 2013, while world production increased by 19% during the same period. this decline had a particularly strong economic impact on the province of limburg where ford genk was the main employer. the belgian government has very specific ideas about the use of this aid: support in job search; training and retraining; allowances and incentives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium and the car manufacturer ford genk following the wave of redundancies following the closure of the plant. remember, the closure was largely due to a decline in passenger car production and sales of new cars within the european union, mainly to the benefit of asian manufacturers. the egf call for funds, worth €6.3 million, is now aimed at helping 4 500 former workers to find a job. belgium had already received €570,000 to help former ford workers, who were made redundant in the first wave of layoffs in 2013, get back to work. i regret, however, that this new aid package is arriving... very late. moreover, more resources should be devoted to anticipating restructuring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. it is also europe's role to help countries, and above all citizens who have suffered the worst, and to give them the tools they need to rebuild their lives and their future. i am particularly concerned about this situation because it happened in belgium in this case and because genk has made a number of disastrous decisions, guided by so-called market imperatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because my region could really use this money to help guide the more than 5000 workers who have been made redundant back to a new job. after the redundancies caused by the closure of ford genk, the fruit crops which are being badly affected by the russian sanctions and the precarious situation of the belgian army, it is high time that the european union helped to rebuild employment in limburg. 60% of the costs of the closure shall be borne by the union.
in writing. ‒ in march 2015, italy submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies at gruppo alitalia in italy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in question. since the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met, i supported the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf to the amount of eur 1 414 848 to help italian workers who have been affected by the economic crisis and the austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to get back on track with economic growth. the nva members of the european parliament therefore abstained on this dossier.
in writing. the international air transport market has been subject to severe economic disruption, in particular a decline in the union's market share. the employees suffered the consequences. the decision to provide support to redundant employees and self-employed persons who are ceasing their activity through the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and in compliance with the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination is fully justified, as has been the case for other european airlines.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon to grant financial aid to 184 workers who lost their jobs at a factory in the alitalia aircraft group. the grant, amounting to eur 1 414 848, is intended to enable the italian authorities to organise personalised services to help these workers get back on the path to employment quickly. this aid, granted by the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has an annual budget of €150 million, is granted following economic redundancies. the latter are the direct consequence of increased competition between airlines in an industry that has been severely affected by the international economic and financial crisis. in addition to this specific case, two other countries have recently benefited from this financial boost for similar cases: germany for its adam opel ag plant and belgium for ford genk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the facts. the airline's difficulties were then aggravated by the decline in passenger numbers due to the economic crisis and by the increase in oil prices. most of the redundancies occurred in the lazio region in the centre of the country. italy has requested assistance from the egf to help 184 workers who are having the most difficulty finding a job. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been in breach of the airport services agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. it is also europe's role to help countries, and above all citizens who have suffered the worst, and to give them the tools they need to rebuild their lives and their future.
in writing. ‒ in order to make decentralised cooperation one of the main means of implementing the eu's post-2015 development framework, this report calls on the european commission to: make decentralisation a focus area of its external aid financial instruments; step up its efforts to integrate local authorities as full players in the implementation of the 11th european development fund. i supported this report which argues that strategic planning at national and local level is absolutely necessary for the promotion and integration of the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development aid.
in writing. ‒ local authorities play a key role in defining and implementing european and international development policy. they are the providers of all basic public services. the recognition and consideration of their expertise must therefore be a central element in the implementation of european cooperation and development policy. i supported this report because it stresses the key role of decentralisation and calls on the european union to promote decentralised cooperation as a means of implementing the post-2015 development framework. the commission should step up its efforts to integrate local authorities as full actors in the implementation of the european development fund. the member states should give local authorities sufficient prominence in their development programmes and coordinate their action with that of the commission and other member states.
in writing. local authorities are essential actors in poverty reduction and the implementation of the sustainable development strategy. local governance is at the very heart of democracy in that it allows for greater involvement of local people in the country's socio-economic programmes. it brings local and community objectives closer to national and global objectives in the framework of the international development agenda. the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries is timely. it defines the strategic means of implementing the development programme adopted in september by the united nations. i am glad that i was the fictitious rapporteur for this report which recalls the fundamentals of democratic governance at local level. sustainable development is only possible if it is based on effective, transparent and accountable governance that gives greater autonomy to local authorities, civil society organisations, women, youth, minorities, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the key role played by local authorities. closer to citizens than other public institutions, local authorities have a responsibility to mobilise opinions while acting as catalysts for change, including with a view to making public administrations more efficient, making development processes more open, in cooperation with civil society organisations, and finding solutions to the urgent challenges faced by local communities (such as social exclusion, migration, food security, lack of infrastructure, urbanisation, depletion of resources, etc.). good governance, which the report advocates, particularly at local level, is therefore paramount. it creates the conditions for open, responsive and efficient development processes.
in writing. - it's our duty to help the local authorities. the world population is expected to increase from about 7 billion to 9.3 billion people by 2050, with most of this growth expected to occur in developing countries, particularly in urban areas. excessive urbanization undermines the sustainability of development in all its dimensions. the local authorities must therefore be supported: this cooperation is very valuable and useful for many european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, criminal behaviour from any company at all, no matter the size, is absolutely intolerable in the european union. it not only breaks public trust, but it also undermines the quality of our european products. in addition, especially in this case, it damages the health of our european citizens. as we all know, air pollution across the eu is already causing more than 400 premature deaths a year. madam commissioner, the mere fact that it was the epa in the us and not our national approval authorities in the eu that discovered the defeat devices is really embarrassing, and i do not share your confidence in our national authorities. i think the european system as it is today, where car makers pay national testing organisations and they can choose themselves where they want their models to be tested, is not working. madam commissioner, therefore we would like to ask you to establish an independent eu type-approval authority. there is also a very inconvenient truth. even the cars that passed testing in a proper way – or let us presume in a proper way – are polluting much more than they should. in the s&d group, we have long advocated the real-driving emission (rde) test and we urge you to come up with the conformity factor of one and not more, as you said commissioner, by september 2017, at the latest, and without any loopholes. let me conclude by saying that we should never waste a serious crisis such as this one, and it is not about being against or in favour of diesel. what i think we should do is leapfrog from clean diesel to electric, and we need to support that. we need to make sure that we have a european union that supports that, so that car makers can bring solutions instead of problems.
we are all - i hope the commissioner is listening because she is talking to her staff, but perhaps the president can bring this to her attention - still a little in shock - good afternoon, madam commissioner - about what has happened, but it is time to learn from this. there are two things we must do now, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and most of them have already been mentioned. i want to emphasize them again: an independent european audit body to monitor the case. we all know that type approval is done by national authorities and that is a cheese with holes. it has to stop. that's where we need to intervene. i think most of us would agree. it doesn't have to cost a lot of money. there is no need for a new european agency. - no, it's the opposite. that is a matter of political will and we can put that right relatively quickly. secondly - the commissioner referred to this in her introduction - this new test method must be introduced quickly. the commissioner said speed up, and we naturally agree with him. in 2017, the real-world emission tests shall be operational. that's a good thing. i think we're all in on it. that's going to be a tough sell for the car manufacturers, we know that, but i think we have no choice now. it is high time to take a fundamental step forward. then there are the diesels. there's a lot of criticism about the diesels. i think that the diesel cars do not have to disappear from our streets. on the contrary, this is important european technology which we should not be playing with now. but this is an ultimately unique moment to make the diesels cleaner and to make it a clean technology. this is the time to do it.
mr president, volkswagen has cheated, cheated the law, cheated the consumer, of course, and the implications in europe, the first market for diesel, are not yet fully known. a lot has been said this afternoon. beyond the legal and technical aspects, which have of course been discussed at length, i also feel that the volkswagen case should make us think about the model of car we want for the europe of tomorrow. the current situation is not sustainable. it will probably have to be admitted one day that we cannot continue to promise ever bigger and ever more powerful vehicles and at the same time ever less polluting. just a number in that regard. in belgium alone, the number of suv registrations increased fivefold between 2000 and 2013 so, beyond a revised law that imposes, as we have said, real-world testing, strict and independent controls to be enforced everywhere, i wonder if the question today is not whether we are not tackling a kind of new paradigm, a paradigm shift. technology has its limits and pollute less, it is also for the driver to consume the road differently. incidentally, this is also what the associations of victims' parents with the lisa charter, such as light and safe, advocate.
in writing. member states and regions should be encouraged to bring a complaint against the german company. to bring an action for damages would be only fair; the tax incentives granted by the public authorities to private individuals for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles are based on a lie by volkswagen. on the other hand, asking companies to self-monitor is like asking drivers to fine themselves! co2 fraud is fraud on tax incentives, particularly in countries where these incentives were linked to car power or environmental virtues. the authorities must therefore file a complaint to seek redress. to avoid a succession of lies, i would like to make it clear that some people have taken advantage of the vw crisis to praise the merits of the us authorities and therefore of ttip, which is still looking for allies in view of the suspicions about the treaty. the lack of a pot: the pot of roses on the exhaust pipes was discovered by independent researchers, first in germany and then in the usa, and not by the us authorities!
we know that the high representative is rightly giving priority to the situation in libya, a country in ruins, a population in despair. the picture you've given is not a pretty one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have also pointed that out. many questions remain unanswered, such as those about justice, punishment and reconciliation. how can the different groups and communities come together and work together again? how can they be reconciled? how can justice be done for the victims of war crimes and the perpetrators punished? i also want to stress the importance of education. young people need to learn to think for themselves. they need to be able to form their own opinions. because how else are we going to build an independent civil society that has to guide the political leadership to make the right decisions? if the european union ignores these challenges in libya, peace and stability will not be possible. we have to avoid that. the clock is ticking. we are facing a huge challenge. we'll have to step up our efforts.
i do think that the situation is very critical and many colleagues have already said so here. 400 000 people are displaced within libya itself and many more are seeking safety elsewhere. the mediterranean has become a dangerous escape route for hundreds of thousands of people. since skhirat's statement, there is hope. now it is only a matter of time before all the parties sign the agreements, and to do that the libyans need our support. i understand that the commission has also put 100 million euro at the disposal to support the democratic transition. colleagues, giving money will not be enough in my view. it is a vital point, but we must dare to provide support on the ground, together with the united nations, with the knowledge and technical support of the police and the judiciary. we must dare to consider resuming police and military cooperation. eubam libya, suspended, should resume its activities. and as a final point, i would like to make a plea here to support the request of human rights watch: let the guilty be tried by the international criminal court.
on behalf of the ecr-fracti. every execution silences me. every execution is a defeat and a proof of impotence. a defeat for all of humanity. a defeat for humanity. a sign of inability to do justice in a humane way and not in a barbaric or degrading way. it is true that the number of executions worldwide has decreased and that many countries have abolished the death penalty in recent years, but we are far from a global abolition and in some countries the figures are downright chilling. often they are state secrets, but we do know, for example, that iran executed 600 people in the first half of this year alone, often for non-violent offenses such as adultery or drug offenses. we are also seeing a disturbing trend in other countries. i therefore welcome the initiative of my own federal government last week in the un human rights council to put the death penalty back on the international agenda. if the eu institutions take on their leading role in the fight against the death penalty with even greater emphasis, if they put not only economic interests but also human rights and the fight against the death penalty first, then they will find our full support in this parliament.
in writing. according to amnesty international, 607 executions and 2,466 death sentences were recorded in 22 countries in 2014. yet, according to the ngo, there is no evidence that the death penalty has a greater deterrent effect on criminal acts than imprisonment. but above all, the death penalty is contrary to european values and european law. the eu charter of fundamental rights explicitly prohibits the death penalty (article 2). at a time when some countries are even considering reintroducing the death penalty, including within the continent, it is the eu's duty to reiterate its unconditional condemnation of the death penalty and the ultimate goal of total abolition at the global level. i can of course only support this resolution in line with respect for human rights and human dignity.
on behalf of the group of the european right i agree with the previous speaker in many respects. on behalf of the group of the european right, i too would like to express my condolences to the families and friends of the victims and to the survivors of this terrible bombing. we are all shocked and call for a thorough and independent investigation. how in the world could aid workers and patients have been the victims of an air strike on a ngo hospital? there must be serious miscalculations made by american and afghan military personnel and even then. the americans have been operating in afghanistan for 14 years. dismissing the bombing as collateral damage is a cheap and unacceptable excuse. in addition, msf states that it has done everything possible to ensure its own safety. even if there were taliban fighters in the hospital - which doctors without borders strongly denies - first aid workers had to be warned. but the problem goes much further. due to structural mismanagement by the afghan government, the taliban are on the march again today. a year after the much-vaunted unity government, there is still no minister of defence and the president and the prime minister are fighting over government posts. meanwhile, the afghan army is fighting the taliban with inadequate equipment and incompetent leadership. since they do not have an air force that can make a difference, the help of the americans was called in. they carried out bombing operations against their mandate. how can 7,000 afghan troops be forced to surrender control of a city to a force ten times smaller? there are dangerous parallels to iraq, where the military lost control of mosul in a similar fashion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: after four years of civil war, assad controls only a quarter of his territory. his armies are exhausted, decimated, demoralized. for damascus, the russian military intervention comes as a blessing, just in time. for the geopolitical powers of the region, however, putin's bombs are a curse. with his air strikes, president putin wants to point out the bankruptcy of western action in the middle east. the moderate rebels, who were trained with the support of the anti-isis coalition, are also his enemies. but he also wants to hit the gulf states for keeping oil prices low. donbass is in ruins. ukraine is settling into europe for good. it is clear that putin is looking for a new narrative to perpetuate the cult around him and to show what the new modus operandi of the kremlin is going to be. and the west is losing credibility and soft power. we'd better not play games like this. cooperation between all the geopolitical players is therefore the only way to both crush isis and get assad out. finally, let us not forget which torturer and mass murderer moscow is supporting.
in writing. ‒ the aim was to determine the dates of the plenary session for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this 2017 calendar proposed by the conference of presidents, which sets the times and places of the different sessions. the establishment of this timetable will make it possible to work efficiently by alternating the weeks of parliamentary committees, group meetings and plenary sessions.
in writing. ‒ in order to support tunisia's democratic transition process, it should be helped to strengthen its economy. it is in this spirit that tunisia's participation in the union's programmes should be considered, through this protocol which i have approved. in particular, the financial contribution from tunisia should be kept as low as possible. the union should also strengthen cooperation in the fields of higher education, general education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+ and other programmes to promote people-to-people contacts.
in writing. the successful transition to an open and democratic society in tunisia is linked to the economic development of the country. however, in recent years the tunisian economy has suffered severe blows. trade with europe in particular has declined sharply, although europe remains the most important trading partner. despite this economic downturn, tunisia has sufficient potential for economic growth. in addition to implementing a number of necessary reforms that can boost the economy in this country in a sustainable and inclusive way, it is therefore essential that the eu also engages. the participation of tunisia in eu programmes should be seen in this light. the exchange of scientific research, education and training of young people is also part of the package for better cooperation. concrete commitments on investment can help support the country's democratic transition and stabilise the region. finally, tunisia should also be able to participate in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ under the european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening of certain eu programmes and agencies to partner countries covered by the policy is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the eu's neighbouring countries. in december 2013, tunisia indicated its willingness to participate in the wide range of programmes open to partner countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy. the text voted on today therefore concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol containing a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. it includes standard conditions to be applied to all partner countries concerned by the european neighbourhood policy with which such protocols are to be concluded. the protocol seeks to define the financial and technical rules allowing tunisia to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows tunisia to receive technical assistance from the european union, in particular financial assistance, under european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my distinguished colleague mr panzeri. tunisia was the cradle of the arab spring. to date, it remains the only country in the near and middle east and north africa region where this social and political experience is still alive. the success of tunisia's democratic transition will now depend on its economic and social development. the country has a strong long-term growth potential. implementation of the expected reforms, in addition to its existing strengths such as its human resources and its open economy, will enable it to fulfil its full potential and provide a sustainable and inclusive boost to its economy. in recent years, the health of the tunisian economy has deteriorated sharply, both domestically and internationally, particularly in terms of trade with europe, which remains the country's main trading partner. it is therefore essential to make the tunisian question a priority for the union.
in writing. ‒ if we want tunisia, where the arab revolution began and bore the greatest fruit, to become a democratic society, we must improve the economic development of this country. in recent years, the tunisian economy has suffered a severe blow, with tourism being the main victim. trade with europe in particular has declined sharply, although europe remains the most important trading partner. the participation of tunisia in eu programmes should be seen in this light. the exchange of scientific research, education and training of young people is also part of the package for better cooperation. that is why i fully support this protocol.
in writing. ‒ this regulation establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify and speed up the settlement of small claims in cross-border cases and to reduce the costs. it was specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to pursue their claims, thereby ensuring their access to justice. the aim of this report, which i supported, is to extend and improve the use of this instrument in the development and communication of this project.
in writing. the proposal voted on here facilitates the procedure for filing a small claim. individuals throughout the european union will be able to submit a claim without any further obligations. if it is not desired, the trial may be held without a hearing. if the hearing is necessary, it will also be possible to conduct it remotely, for example by videoconference. all these measures will make the judiciary more efficient and streamlined, which in turn will contribute to more transparent legislation. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european small claims procedure has been in place since 2009. it is an optional simplified procedure based on standard forms and allows the recovery of funds held by a third party in another eu country. the system works well. it has reduced the costs of litigation for small crossborder claims by 40% and the length of the process has been reduced from two years to an average of five months. i supported this report because i felt that changes had to be made to this procedure to enable more citizens and small businesses to use it. in particular, i support raising the ceiling on debts that can be recovered through the procedure from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000, the proportionality of legal costs, the encouragement to use remote communication technologies for possible oral hearings and the provision of practical assistance by eu countries to fill in forms and give general information on the procedure and the jurisdiction of the court concerned.
in writing. i am pleased to see the culmination of this initiative taken by my group in 2011. with the development of cross-border trade, it was necessary to revise this regulation in order to improve access to justice for both european citizens and smes. the balanced compromise that has been reached is fully in line with the wider objective of better lawmaking. by increasing the small claims ceiling to eur 10 000, reducing the duration of the proceedings to 5 months and reducing the costs of the proceedings through pragmatic measures (e.g. payment by credit card, remote communication for hearings, capping of court fees, etc.); we are not only saving an estimated 40% but also, and above all, we are helping consumers and smes to bring actions to assert their rights. the european small claims procedure will need to be well communicated both at european level, via the e-justice portal, and at national level through awareness-raising campaigns, if it is to be successful.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure, which aims to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of settling small crossborder disputes. this procedure has been specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to enforce their rights, thereby ensuring their access to justice. a review of the five years of application of the procedure shows that it has proved its worth. however, much remains to be done to expand and improve the use of this instrument. the european small claims procedure has reduced the costs of small claims cross-border proceedings by up to 40% and reduced their duration from a maximum of two years and five months to an average of five months. however, in some member states the use of small claims courts remains rare and therefore more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, the use of modern technology and the transparency of proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the new european crossborder litigation procedure was voted on this afternoon. the european small claims procedure (escp) introduced in 2007 has reduced the cost of litigation by 40% and the length of litigation by more than 80%. the analysis of these latest figures shows that the contribution to consumers is therefore undeniable. but we wanted to improve the system further so that as many citizens as possible could benefit from it; this is not the case at the moment with only 86% of citizens and almost half of the courts saying they have never heard of this procedure
in writing. ‒ there are about 150 000 medium combustion plants in the eu which are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. while large combustion plants are covered by an ad hoc directive, air pollutant emissions from medium combustion plants are not. a proposal for a directive aims to regulate emissions from these medium-sized installations with the aim of reducing pollution for new and existing installations and of making effective application of the standards via a recording system. the report, which i have approved, supports the commission's proposal but provides clarifications on the application of the new directive in relation to the existing acquis, particularly in the area of industrial emissions.
in writing. the directive voted on here includes stricter limits for the emission of harmful substances from medium combustion plants (1-50 mw input), a category which has not been regulated so far. the directive also makes it possible to carry out more efficient controls on such installations. it can only improve air quality and at the same time encourage investment in better and cleaner installations.
in writing. ‒ there are about 143 000 'medium' combustion plants in europe (i.e. with a thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw). these installations are used for electricity generation, domestic or residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat or steam for industrial purposes. they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. there are already eu regulations for small and large combustion plants, but until now, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants were not regulated at eu level. that is why i supported this directive, especially since the text sets emission ceilings at an ambitious level to allow for a gradual improvement in air quality, while preserving the operation of existing installations, especially the smaller ones, operated by smes or local authorities, which are important, for example, for heating schools, hospitals or universities. of course, the directive does not prevent member states from enforcing standards that are stricter than those laid down by the directive.
europe has made serious efforts in recent years to clean up its air. despite measurable improvements, however, air quality in europe is still poor in many places. the air quality is still below the standards set by the eu and below the world health organisation's targets. the emission limit values for small and medium-sized combustion plants have now been set in addition to the emission standards for large combustion plants. today, there are some 143 000 small and medium-sized combustion plants in europe covered by this new directive. these are often local combustion plants that supply energy or heat to small village communities or large buildings or, for example, supply steam or hot water to public district heating networks. the directive, which has been tightened up by parliament, now sets maximum emission limits for nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and fine dust. in order to comply with the directive and at the same time to guarantee the energy supply, the operators of these combustion plants have ample time to adapt to the stricter emission standards. the adoption of the directive by parliament is a major step forward in europe's ambition to achieve clean and healthy air.
in writing. ‒ amid the volkswagen scandal over the fraud in pollution tests of 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide, meps adopted important legislation on air quality this afternoon. the new legislation affects about 143 000 medium-sized combustion plants in the eu. these equipment, with a thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw, are used for various applications (electricity, domestic and industrial heating and cooling, etc.). unlike small and large combustion plants, they are not currently covered by eu legislation, although they cause an increase in particulate matter (pm) emissions. i supported this agreement at first reading with the council, as i did on 15 july in the committee on the environment. a compromise which allows the national authorities to introduce stricter limit values than those laid down by the directive. efforts will need to continue at all levels of government because, as the european environment agency points out, air pollution poses direct risks to people and the environment: concentrations of particulate matter are responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths each year in the eu. this is an unacceptable figure!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european directive which will limit the emissions of certain air pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants, such as electricity generators and domestic or industrial heating or cooling systems. the vote confirms the agreement reached on 23 june by the negotiators of the european parliament, the european commission and the council of the eu on the first reading of this legislation, which for the first time will regulate the pollution of the 143 000 installations with a thermal output of 1 to 50 megawatts. the emission limit values for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from existing combustion plants of more than 5 mw will come into force in 2025 as proposed by the european commission. but smaller installations, with a thermal capacity of between 1 and 5 mw, generally used by smes, will only have to comply with the limit values from 2030. in areas where eu air quality standards are not being met, member states will be required to assess whether stricter limit values should be set. the text introduces rules for monitoring carbon monoxide.
in writing. ‒ the proposed changes improve the prospects for realistic implementation of the directive, so that it can become an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union, without imposing an unjustified burden on society and the economy. unfortunately, we had to compromise, but i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the commission published a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. it repeals the previous directive on the subject and brings community legislation into line with international standards as regards caseins and caseinates. the proposal must be seen in the context of the general food law which aims at the free movement of safe and healthy food. in this respect, the new labelling requirements will allow consumers, especially those suffering from allergies, to make informed choices. i approved this report.
in writing. caseins and caseinates are substances obtained from milk by technological processes and are found in many products other than those of the dairy sector. the proposed directive harmonises european standards with international standards. this is an important step because it puts the european dairy industry on a level playing field globally. this will strengthen the internal market and update the standards for informing consumers about the presence of these substances in the products concerned. caseins and caseinates are allergens. the report recalls one of the eu's fundamental principles, which is to ensure that consumer protection is ensured by the establishment of strict and transparent regulations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr la via on casein and caseinates for human consumption. the aim of the technical adaptation is to repeal a 1983 directive and replace it with the present legislation in order to bring community provisions into line with international standards. the aim behind this technical jargon is to update the legal framework for casein, the protein material in milk. caseinates are products obtained by drying treated casein. a key point of this legislation concerns consumer information, since some citizens are allergic to casein as they are to lactose. this is why it is important to indicate their presence on food labels. this adaptation of european legislation to international standards will not end the debate on the good and bad sides of casein. on the positive side, casein is of great use in all situations where protein intake is limited over a long period of time. on the negative side, some animal proteins, such as casein, are thought to cause breast cancer and other forms of carcinoma. that's a great way to rehabilitate the baby.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the commission published its proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec. in its proposal, the commission suggests replacing the directive with a new one, mainly for the following reasons: the need to adapt existing provisions to the development of legislation in the field of foodstuffs and to adjust the compositional requirements for food caseins to the corresponding international standard. these new provisions which i voted for will enable food business operators to enjoy a level playing field on the world market. the text also supports the labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates, which will allow consumers, especially those with food allergies or intolerances, to make informed choices.
in writing. ‒ casein and caseinates are milk proteins used as neutralising factors in food products. these proteins are often the cause of various allergies. this is why there is a call for stricter standards requiring the labelling of these caseins on the products in which they are used. this will no longer leave consumers in the dark about the nutrients and added values in their food and drink that can cause allergies. the european commission proposes to repeal and replace european directive 83/417/eec with a new directive. this will further develop the food law and will align the commission's implementing powers as set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in addition, the maximum permitted casein content is adjusted to international standards. the commission proposal requires manufacturers to label added nutrients that could cause allergic reactions, something which is strongly supported by the greens. the european parliament does want the european commission's powers, as mentioned above, to be limited in time and to be limited. i support this proposal because it protects and safeguards the rights of consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. as regards the adjustment to international standards, it is proposed to increase the parameters for the maximum moisture content of food caseins and the maximum milk fat content for acidic food casein to 12% and 2% respectively (instead of the current 10% and 2,25%). in order to allow for the rapid adaptation of annexes i to iii (standards applicable to food casein acid, food casein dry matter and food caseinates as regards their composition, contaminants, technological aids used, etc.) to international standards and future technical progress, the commission also suggests the adoption of delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which i have approved, supports the commission's proposal for a regulation to bring the financial regulation applicable to the union budget into line with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. it does, however, make a number of changes. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. no contracts could be split for the same purposes. where the contracting authority decides not to divide a contract into lots, it should justify its decision. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's environmental and social legislation, in particular the new environmental and social legislation, and the new environmental and social legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the protection of the financial interests of the union is one of the essential principles and objectives of this financial regulation. the union has repeatedly stated its intention to combat tax evasion and avoidance. with the eu's underground economy accounting for almost a fifth of gdp and tens of billions of euros still held in offshore structures, in many cases undeclared and not subject to taxation, strengthening the fight against tax fraud and evasion is not just a matter of revenue but also of fairness. the financial interests of the union can be better protected by including tax evasion in the grounds for exclusion in the procurement procedures of the union institutions. the vote on this text will be taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. these amendments concern, among other things, the award of public contracts, a subject which is very close to my heart. it also specifies how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, while ensuring the possibility of obtaining the best value for money in their contracts, which they can do, in particular, by requiring special labels or using appropriate award methods.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank you, chancellor merkel. they have shown compassion, understanding and leadership in the refugee crisis, and this at a time when europe lacks all three of these things. thank you for that. (applause from the centre) mr president, it is always an honour to see you here in the european parliament. you come here more often, i think, than to the national assembly. it is better here, at the cradle of european democracy, and i must say that i fully share your analysis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this crisis is an existential crisis. let us face reality, this multiple crisis - and i know that a number of people in this house will like this - puts the very existence of the european project itself in danger. if tomorrow the euro disappears or if schengen falls apart, then what are we left with in europe? only a loose confederation of nation-states? we will be weak economically, and insignificant on the world stage. that will be the result. (applause) and let us not be naive about this. it will be the americans and the chinese who will dictate our economic standards here in europe; and it will be assad and putin who will decide on peace and stability in europe. (as putin already finances some right-wing parties in europe, maybe that is the normal turn of events.) what i want to make clear in this debate today with you, chancellor merkel and president hollande, is that the source and origin of each of these crises is in fact exactly the same: it is a lack of common governance; it is a lack of shared sovereignty. it is the lack of unity in europe that is the cause of the crisis. (applause) and mr legutko, you say "yes, europe is the problem" and "europe creates and solves the problems", but when 20 million citizens were slaughtered in europe in the 19th and 20th centuries it was not because of "europe", it was because of nationalism and populism. (applause) we cannot overcome the refugee crisis and we cannot keep schengen if we do not have a common asylum policy, a common migration policy and common border and coastguard control. we cannot overcome the euro crisis without one government for the euro and one treasury. we cannot overcome our economic weaknesses if we do not liberate ourselves of 28 national regulators in all the markets of the future digital, energy and capital. and we shall not overcome our geopolitical insignificance if we do not embrace a real foreign policy in europe, a single representation in the international institutions and, at the very least, a defence community in the european union. (applause) to achieve this in the final years of this decade, and to ensure that this decade does not become a lost decade for a number of people and for the european project, i think we have to change three bad attitudes: first, l'europe à la carte; second, the step-by-step approach that we embrace; and third, our clouded and outdated view of the world. first of all, europe to the letter. there is not one union. what are you talking about? there are at least 10 unions. there is the 28, there is schengen, there is the euro, there is the patent, there are the opt-ins and the opt-outs, the enhanced cooperation, the derogations it is chaos at the moment and europe needs one strong heart to survive in the future. second, the step-by-step approach: maybe it worked in the good times in the past, but not in the modern world. it's always too little too late. from time to time, in every society, you have to take a big leap forward, to adapt yourself and to resolve all the resistance to necessary change -- as france did, for example, after the revolution when it kicked out an old autocratic regime and created the rule of law, and what germany did when it created the customs union and became a modern economy, the powerhouse of europe in the economic field. so that is what we need at the european level. i have only one appeal to you, chancellor merkel and president hollande, which may not be in the name of the whole parliament but in the name of a large majority here: i call upon you to meet this challenge together with us, the european parliament. it is your historic responsibility to do that, exactly like your predecessors did 25 years ago. look a bit more closely into this historic task, even if you are facing some less important electoral challenges in the near future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we obviously welcome the package and the roadmap that the commissioner is presenting here today, but let us make a true union. we are not imposing a single model for the financing of companies or for the possibilities of investors. we are creating diversity. i think it is really important to mention this here. it is also important to mention that this package will require courage on the part of all the european institutions together to challenge the status quo and to take bold steps forward. look at how we are financing our economy today: we have a lot of savings, but they are not being channelled into the real economy; we have the potential of fast-growing companies, but they cannot find the risk capital that they need to grow fast like their american colleagues. and there is an elephant in the room: it is the national barriers – the double taxation of investment funds, insolvency law and also the regulators who slap on additional regulation and who are creating additional barriers to investment and capital flows in europe. therefore, commissioner, we want to see ambition from your side; we want to see implementation from your side. and then, i think, you will have a lot of support, including from this parliament, for financing companies and creating growth and jobs in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think it is one of the cornerstones of our european union and our internal market that there is a free flow of capital, and capital searches for the most productive investment. by removing barriers, all countries will benefit because they will attract a lot more investors including from foreign countries – and especially the smaller companies. the fast-growing companies are the ones which will benefit the most. and of course, multinational companies are also active across our internal market, but this capital markets union is there in order to help them to create a level playing field.
the plans to double the north stream pipeline run counter to the objectives we have set ourselves for the energy union. the european union must reduce its dependence on russian gas in the coming years, not only by diversifying its suppliers but also by looking for alternative energy sources. moreover, the potential capacity of the existing north stream pipeline is currently only half used. the doubling of north stream is therefore driven by russian geopolitical interests rather than market demand. what are we gonna do when russia starts shutting down the gas line again? what sources are we going to be able to fall back on? so i'd like to ask you to approach this deal with real criticism.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs záborská, on her commitment to this dossier, which shows the shortcomings and proposes remedies. in my report on the development of equality, which i voted on at the beginning of the year, i stressed, as karima delli said earlier, that we will have to wait until 2084 to have equal pay, which is obviously far too long. so we need to take enforcement action to remedy the problem. the choice of 2 november, commissioner, is symbolic because it means that after 2 november women work for free. we're 85% of the way through the year. november 2nd is the day of the dead. so i hope this is not a good time to bury this case. the fight against stereotypes seems to me to be something fundamental. we must fight against gender stereotypes, which reproduce inequalities at the time of entry into the labour market. the problem of gender stereotypes is therefore also a matter for education and training. finally, i think we need to improve the compatibility, as has been said, between work and family life. and clearly, it's often women who are forced to make the choice to give up their jobs. we must also address this.
in writing. the gender pay gap and the gender status gap are still far too wide. it is essential that the european union works towards greater equality between men and women, particularly in the world of work. thank you.
author. mr president, commissioner, the ceasefire in april 2015, the bangui national forum for reconciliation held in may last year, the disarmament, demobilization, reintegration and repatriation agreement allow us to finally rebuild a real political perspective. we should thank france once again for its involvement, and we could have hoped for a little more solidarity and commitment from the european countries. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate mrs samba-panza and the transitional authorities on their determination to complete the process under way. on 3 june they promulgated a law establishing the special criminal court, the adoption by the national council of the transitional constitution project which is to be submitted shortly to a referendum. the main message of my speech is that it is absolutely necessary to hold free, credible and transparent general elections before the end of the year, that is to say, to strictly respect the agenda.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the military coup, the human rights situation in thailand has been steadily worsening. no one can speak freely, any speech against the monarchy or the ruling power is suppressed and leads to arbitrary arrests. charges of crimes against the monarchy have increased since the military coup and anyone who dares to rise up against the regime or the monarchy is liable to undergo behavioural adjustment sessions, a form of intensive police recall aimed at putting them back on the right track. hundreds of websites have been shut down and freedom of speech is now a utopian concept. i want to encourage all human rights defenders who are doing their best to defend basic rights in thailand. i would also like to congratulate mutita chuachang, a thai journalist, who has just received the 2015 kate webb prize, awarded by agence france-presse, which aims to support journalists working in very difficult conditions in asia.
today, some 1.2 million children are roaming the northeast of nigeria, defenseless, displaced, traumatized, fleeing the barbaric violence of boko haram's nomadic war machine. human rights and children's rights are not important. this is the destruction of an entire generation. but i also address the new nigerian president: mr. buhari, protect your children. prove that you can make a difference, because despite the oil dollars, the country has been unable to protect its own people. it's painful how a country can be at the top of the oil supply chain, but still be in the bottom of the world's wealth. it is this poverty that fuels the violence. soldiers are demotivated and the impoverished population is easy prey for terrorists and for the doctrine of boko haram. and let's not forget to look in the mirror, commissioner. can the eu offer the country a better future through its current trade and development policies? a powerful signal requires not only words but also actions. thank you, sir.
i think that the commission has already said that it is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we need to talk about nigeria. more than a million children have fled, many under the age of five, simply because they want to go to school, because they are killed for wanting to get an education. fellas, boko haram is afraid of people with opinions. their truth, their cowardly truth comes from the barrel of a gun. that's why we need to step up the fight against boko haram. but we must be careful that the cure is not worse than the disease. that is why we must ask the newly elected president to launch an investigation into the human rights violations committed by the former military leadership. truth has to happen there. finally, mr president, i would like to make a special appeal to the women who have been raped on a mass scale. i think we should give them all the support we can. i would also like to call for the right to have an abortion if they become pregnant after these crimes. i also thank mrs mogherini for her position on this matter.
author. madam president, ali al-nimr, here he is. he's 17 years old in this picture, almost a child, a model student, a student who loves photography, who loves travel, who loves cycling, who loves freedom too and who, obviously, loves ralph lauren polo shirts. like many in qatif, the shiite stronghold in saudi arabia, ali is a freedom-loving person - i said so - and like thousands of young people who were given wings by the arab spring, he took to the streets in 2012. there was no spring in qatif. this was ali before his arrest, before his detention in the security ward, before confessions extracted under torture. this was ali before the four years that took away his family, before the four years that took away his youth. today, ali is a man, a man on death row. the sentence can be carried out today, tomorrow, anytime. i will not go into the human rights violations in saudi arabia. our text does that, and we do it in session length. the kingdom of saudi arabia has just promoted its ambassador to the highest level of the un human rights council in geneva. i ask for consistency and i join the call of the world to ask king salman for mercy for ali al-nimr.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, a young man of 17 years arrested, tortured and sentenced to be beheaded, followed by crucifixion. i do not associate such practices with the country that chairs the un human rights council, but with daesh or al-qaeda. and the equation doesn't stop there. since the 1970s, saudi arabia has invested tens of billions of oil dollars in eradicating pluralistic islam. today, in mosques from morocco to pakistan and indonesia, sufis, moderate sunnis and shiites are being heretized under the impulse of saudi wahhabism. terrorist groups such as al-qaeda, daesh and the al-nusra front are the ideological heirs of this. anti-modern, anti-western, anti-pluralistic and against women's rights. this parliament has always been very strict about the human rights situation in saudi arabia. yet i see friendly heads of state and government far too easily bought and sold for saudi oil dollars. they are signing the death warrant for ali mohammed al-nimr. not in my name! give him a pardon! let him go!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of further developing the electronic payments market across the union. this directive is part of a wider plan launched by parliament to create an integrated single market for secure electronic payments to support the union's economic growth and to ensure that consumers, traders and all businesses have the choice and benefit of transparent payment services in order to benefit from the benefits of the internal market.
in writing. more and more shops offer products for sale on the internet. however, online payment systems have been less responsive to this trend. we need to make online payment systems more efficient. this will allow for more choice and make these systems more transparent. this is very important to increase confidence in e-commerce, which in turn will further grow e-commerce and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is a need to update the eu rules on payment services in order to keep pace with innovation and make mobile and online payment methods safer, cheaper and more attractive for consumers and businesses alike. the proposal aims to improve consumer protection against fraud, abuse and payment incidents, for example in the event of a contentious transaction. under the proposed new rules, all payment service providers operating in the union will also be subject to appropriate rules, including on oversight. this new framework should create conditions for the emergence of new players and the development of innovative internet and mobile payment methods in europe. consumers and businesses will thus benefit from greater choice and better conditions.
in writing. the emergence of a digital market in europe, conditioned by the emergence of european champions of new technologies, is one of the european parliament's liberal priorities. we have just approved the updating of the rules on the currently fragmented and costly payment services market, which is estimated to cost €130 billion a year. european citizens are expected to spend €45 billion via mobile payments in 2015, an increase of almost 90% compared to 2014. figures that confirm the inevitable growth of digital in everyday life. this new regulatory framework will reduce costs, improve security and facilitate payments mainly via mobile and internet.
in writing. ‒ meps voted this afternoon on the tajani report on updating the rules on the payment services market. these services are growing rapidly but are currently characterised by their fragmented and costly nature, with an estimated total cost of €130 billion per year. a study predicts that european citizens will have spent €45 billion via mobile payments in 2015, an increase of almost 90% compared to 2014. figures that confirm the inevitable impact of digital technology on everyday life. i have of course supported the adaptation of the payment services legislation to the new technological media. this is the kind of legislation that can reconcile citizens with europe. this directive will certainly bring added value for the consumer, who will soon benefit from easier and cheaper payment solutions (online, mobile or tablet and card). this legislation makes it possible to take stock of and anticipate the main trends and the way in which consumers now purchase goods and services. the most visible of these is certainly the fact that trade via smartphones in europe will increase by an average of 42% each year.
in writing. the adoption of this report constitutes an update of the payment services directive. the text adopted aims to improve european rules on payment services in order to encourage innovation in this field in europe and to get rid of american systems such as paypal (the european parliament would like to see other european companies break through, as is already the case in germany with the sofort system...). the text adopted should therefore help to break the banking lock which still prevents the emergence of new payment services, but also to promote the development of innovative settlement methods in the european union. by stimulating the market for alternative online payment methods, the european parliament also hopes to bring down transaction costs. however, cheaper payment services cannot be less secure, so this directive will clearly oblige banks and other payment service providers to use technologies that ensure a secure user authentication procedure and reduce the risk of fraud for consumers. once formally approved by the council, the new legislative framework will enter into force in two years' time, but the technical specifications will have to be applied before then.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr tajani's proposal on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on payment services in the internal market and amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec, following the opinion of the experts in my political group. in particular, this regulation introduces rules on the charging of interchange fees for card-based payment transactions and aims to further accelerate the achievement of an efficient integrated market for card-based payment transactions.
in writing. ‒ according to studies, european citizens spent €45 billion via mobile devices in 2015. this represents an increase of about 90% over the previous year. these figures indicate an ever-increasing impact of online payments on our daily lives. it is estimated that trade via the so-called smartphones is increasing by about 42% annually. i voted for this report, of course, because it adapts european legislation to the ever more rapidly changing technological requirements. the european directive brings added value to the european citizen who will be able to benefit from simplified payment options at lower costs.
in writing. ‒ banking laws and practices on mortgages vary from one european country to another. different conditions for reimbursement therefore exist within the union itself. this has led to a striking example of a lack of consumer protection in spain. indeed, civil society has risen up against the hundreds of thousands of evictions, the abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. the crisis has only made the situation worse for the evicted families who continue to pay their mortgage. in addition, 700 000 spanish citizens believe they have been victims of financial fraud insofar as their savings banks have sold them speculative financial instruments. consumers were not properly informed of the risks associated with the proposed investments and banks did not verify that they had sufficient knowledge to understand the financial risks involved in their choice. i have therefore called, together with other colleagues, for a revision of the guidelines on this issue.
in writing. after the banking crisis, it is important to improve consumer protection and to introduce stricter rules in order to restore confidence and increase investment in the financial sector. this will lead to further growth in financial markets and the economy. we have worked with the european parliament to create new european legislation to better inform and protect consumers when taking out a home loan. but the specific situation in spain is the result of spanish national legislation, something which must be dealt with in the country concerned and not at european level.
in writing. the economic crisis is mainly due to the irresponsible behaviour of a part of the financial world. this petition, signed by many european citizens, only underscores this. it is important that we learn all the lessons from this today in order to better protect european citizens. the banking union is a major step forward in this direction. but there are other measures that must go along with it. the resolution adopted by the plenary contains a number of proposals which deserve debate. it is high time that the commission proposed legislation to harmonize the terms of mortgage contracts. this is an important step in strengthening consumer protection in europe. payment for services
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution is based on numerous petitions received to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions, the presence of abusive clauses in mortgage loan contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers in spain. since 2008, more than 100,000 spanish households have lost their homes. this resolution, which i supported, calls on financial institutions throughout the european union to put an end to abusive practices towards their customers in the field of mortgage credit, sophisticated financial products and credit cards, including the setting of excessive interest rates and arbitrary cancellation of services. the text also calls on financial institutions throughout the union not to evict families living in their only home and to give priority to debt restructuring. the spanish government to use the instruments at its disposal to develop a comprehensive solution capable of significantly reducing the intolerable number of evictions; the european commission to closely monitor the transposition in all member states of directive 2014/17/eu on consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property (the mortgage credit directive).
in writing. ‒ according to amnesty international, 607 executions and 2,466 death sentences were recorded in 22 countries in 2014. yet there is no evidence that the death penalty would have a greater deterrent effect than imprisonment for criminal offences, according to the ngo. but above all, the death penalty is contrary to european values and european law. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union explicitly prohibits the death penalty (article 2). at a time when some countries are even considering reintroducing the death penalty, including within the continent, it is the union's duty to recall its unconditional condemnation of the death penalty and its ultimate aim, which is total abolition at world level. i can of course only support this resolution in line with respect for human rights and human dignity.
in writing. the need to abolish the death penalty is, for a humanist and a universalist like me, a matter of course. this extremely serious problem concerns the right to life, the right not to be subjected to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the first of human rights and respect for human dignity. a man who kills another man is a disgrace to mankind. cruel and unacceptable, the death penalty is the denial of the humanity that lives in every human being. it is neither fair nor effective. it is neither moralising, intimidating nor deterrent. it carries all the social poisons, starting with racism and inequality. the abolition of the death penalty therefore meets an objective of universal justice. as european parliamentarians, we have a duty to campaign in all national and international forums for the universal abolition of the death penalty. we must keep this debate alive, weigh in on our governments and ensure that respect for life is mentioned in any trade agreement, bilateral or multilateral.
in writing. ‒ i signed the joint motion for a resolution on the death penalty, 'considering that the abolition of the death penalty in the world is one of the main objectives of the european union's human rights policy'. as a humanist, i find it intolerable that executions are still carried out. the death penalty is beneath the dignity of the human race. it's the ultimate form of torture. it is motivated by a desire for revenge and is in no way an appropriate response. among the convicted are minors, people with mental or intellectual disabilities, individuals convicted because of their sexual orientation... the death penalty is a violation of international human rights standards and i therefore call for an immediate moratorium on its use with a view to its total abolition. in 2014, at least 2,466 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries, representing an increase of almost 23 percent compared to 2013. regardless of the facts against these individuals, to take their lives deliberately is to deny their humanity. and that we cannot accept.
in writing. ‒ we intend to strongly condemn the use of the death penalty and fully support the establishment of a moratorium on the death penalty with a view to its abolition. we stress once again that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity. finally, we are deeply convinced that the abolition of the death penalty is an established ethical standard.
in writing. ‒ on 10 october, the world was celebrating the international day against the death penalty, and a few months ago mr orban came to the european parliament with a smile to announce that he was thinking of reintroducing the death penalty. reason enough to bring this barbaric punishment to the attention of the public. firstly, it has never been demonstrated that judicial execution would have a deterrent effect on crime. on the other hand, it is well established that a lot of innocent people are executed every year. the idea behind the modern death penalty also contains an immense contradiction: we are not going to slaughter the condemned barbarically with a guillotine, no, we are pretending to teach the decency to do this in a "civilized" way. but the result is the same: we are depriving someone of the right to life, a right that we agreed in 1948 with the declaration of human rights that it would be inalienable. hypocrisy is the pitfall of this so-called "ethical" thinking. the abolition of the death penalty is not only the morally correct choice, it is also clearer, more just and it is a choice that transcends the politics of the moment and that stands the test of time.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution in which parliament first of all commemorates the victims of the red mud disaster and recalls the support given to hungary in the field of civil protection and the development of recommendations to eliminate and mitigate the damage caused. the resolution, five years later, draws both positive and negative lessons from the catastrophe of red mud, a hazardous waste that had caused the pollution of vast areas of land. parliament stressed its concern at the lack of awareness in recent years of the need to remedy the poor implementation of european legislation, which is said to be the cause of the industrial catastrophe.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on the lessons to be learned from the industrial catastrophe of red mud in hungary, five years after the fact. in this resolution, and with a view to preventing further disasters, parliament called for the correct implementation of eu legislation and for environmental inspections to be strengthened, particularly in the field of waste management from the extractive industry. in this connection, parliament called on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on environmental inspections. european environmental legislation is one of the most ambitious in the world. it is crucial that it be respected and properly implemented. in particular, the prevention of industrial disasters and the vigilant management of hazardous waste such as red mud must be among the priorities.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, which caused flooding in several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including 4 natura 2000 sites. the resolution is concerned that little or no lessons seem to have been learned in the last five years, as eu legislation and international conventions continue to be poorly applied, inspections remain weak and no or few shortcomings in eu legislation have been addressed during this period. the text adopted, which i supported, therefore calls in particular on the commission and the member states to intensify their efforts to ensure the full implementation and correct application of all relevant union legislation and all relevant international conventions, not only with regard to the manufacture of aluminium and the environmentally sound management of red sludge, but also, in general, the environmentally sound management of hazardous waste.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 red mud disaster is the most dramatic industrial disaster in hungary. i pay tribute to the victims on the fifth anniversary of that tragic accident. we are calling on all member states with red mud pools to check whether the red mud has been correctly classified as hazardous waste and to review as soon as possible all the permits based on incorrect classifications. the commission will have to ensure that member states take action and report back to the commission. parliament called on the commission to publish a report on the measures taken by the member states by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, which i approved, pursues the objective of promoting gender equality in the context of a renewed eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation and recalls that this fundamental human right, which is not yet fully respected in all states, must not be trampled on in the name of any religion, culture or tradition. with this resolution, parliament wants to give the european union a new impetus through a stronger commitment by the european external action service and the commission. the new action plan should be reflected in all aspects of the union's action, in accordance with the principles of development cooperation, and apply to developing countries, neighbouring countries and candidate countries. in this context, it calls for more effective implementation strategies through a comprehensive approach, intensifying efforts and increasing resources, with a view to strengthening women's rights and eliminating all forms of violence and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which considers that this new action plan should focus on all aspects of the union's external policy, namely development cooperation, humanitarian aid, human rights and foreign affairs, migration and asylum. the report also calls on the eu to uphold the fundamental rights of women and girls as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and to make further efforts to improve women's access to health and health education, family planning and sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. ‒ breaking the vicious circle of gender discrimination is one of the objectives of the european project. men and women must have the same rights, respected worldwide, which will give everyone an equal chance for development and self-fulfilment. to achieve this, the european union is renewing its action plan on gender equality. the european parliament showed that the introduction of such legislation is not happening in many member states and that there is a lack of political will to prioritise this issue. the new action plan does have some positive aspects, but it is unfortunately weaker than previously adopted european resolutions on gender equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i fully support this resolution. yet it is disappointing that there is no mention of abortion assistance in developing countries. that is because the socialist group is afraid of losing the support of the christian democrats. the greens therefore tabled an amendment to amend this part of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text, of course, as the representative of the femm committee in the european parliament. the european union is committed to promoting gender equality and to mainstreaming the gender dimension in all its actions. gender equality and women's empowerment are key to achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, but they are also stand-alone human rights objectives that should be pursued regardless of their benefits for development and growth. on the other hand, gender-based violence is a serious violation of human rights and cannot be justified in any way by religion, culture or tradition.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of its report on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, the femm parliamentary committee considers that the current directive 2006/54/ec has reached its limits and needs to be updated. although the principle of equal pay was enshrined in the treaties as early as 1957 and recognised by the feu treaty and incorporated into directive 2006/54/ec, progress is slow and the gender pay gap persists at an average of 16.4% in the eu. the issue of treatment between men and women in employment and work is a matter of freedom and justice. i therefore agree with the conclusions of the report calling on the commission to put forward a new legislative proposal based on the principles of equal treatment and social dialogue and on the member states to combat unequal pay practices.
in writing. the gap between men and women in the workplace must be closed. i voted for this directive because it ensures a better implementation of the principles of equality. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and to promote the development of a global approach to hiv/aids. this should lead to greater productivity and development opportunities for both women and men, something which i, as a liberal, can only approve.
in writing. the report calls on the european commission to propose new actions to eliminate the remaining inequalities between men and women in the labour market. today, there is still an inexplicable gap between what men and women receive on their payroll at the beginning of the month. this wage gap increases even after retirement. this means that women in the eu receive up to 39% less in pensions. this difference in pensions is related to shorter careers, fewer full-time jobs but also to more difficult access to the labour market and to more limited career opportunities. closing the pay gap is necessary to guarantee women's individual development opportunities and their economic independence. at the same time, the application of the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' will also improve the financial situation of many european families. access to the labour market also needs to be improved. application procedures and job evaluations should be completely gender neutral so that not the nicest or the toughest, but the most suitable candidate gets the job.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. an important vote, since the principle of equality is still far from being a reality in europe today. despite the many legislative initiatives over the past 40 years, it is clear that convergence on equal opportunities and treatment for men and women is slow and insufficient. even today, women earn on average 16.4% less than men, their employment rate is much lower and they are more likely to be confronted with atypical forms of contract. the list of such unfair differences is still long and highlights the need to act more effectively. this report highlights the insufficient transposition of the 2006 directive, a problem that needs to be addressed. through this report, the european parliament also makes a series of proposals to the commission for its new legislative proposal to be presented in 2016. finally, it should be noted that the report also addresses discrimination suffered by some people because of their gender identity or gender reassignment.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained on this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking into account all the various target groups. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. we have had to abstain on this report because of the call for compulsory quotas for women. there are societal and underlying causes of the glass ceiling and discrimination. quotas are not the answer. the n-va is also a party that pays great attention to the welfare of the family. at the same time, subsidiarity is also important for the n-va. we are aware of the different levels of policy and the division of powers. in this respect, the present report is problematic, since it advocates a common position on the maternity directive. the nva delegation also points to the very specific and rather complex belgian context, given the existence of different schemes such as time credits and thematic engagement (e.g. parental leave). these systems are integrated into a system of careers account, which is a flexible and tailor-made form of careers policy and ensures an effective and workable combination between work and care.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a fundamental principle of natural law, requiring that a man and a woman be treated equally, in a fair and just manner. however, it is noted that this principle is still too often denied, or even criticised, by the business world, where men occupy the most senior positions of responsibility. once again the european parliament is in favour of more effective equality, because that is what it is all about. we will not stop fighting as long as women's rights are so badly abused
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. by 2015, it should no longer be possible for men and women of all ages to have unequal opportunities, pay or treatment because of their gender and even because of their sexual orientation. the report shows that many things have happened for the better, but that we still have a long way to go before we can speak of equal treatment and equal opportunities in their working lives.
madam president, i would first like to thank gilles pargneaux for his excellent work. i thank gilles pargneaux for his excellent work and hope that this report can be accepted by a very wide majority. perhaps ecr still needs to be thought through before it is implemented. it is of the utmost importance that we are as united as possible in order to maintain our leadership role. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. as the earth continues to warm, we are soon faced not only with a terrible environmental disaster but also with a population shift that is reflected in today's refugee crisis. studies say over 200 million people will die on the flight. when i see how difficult we have it today, i think there is a reason to put all of us behind a good report by gilles pargneaux and soon a climate agreement will be signed. i think that is a very important point. we must especially keep our fortrekkers on their toes. it is not enough to spell them out. we must try to reach an agreement, but also and above all our own initiatives and set clear objectives on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i would like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteur, mr gilles pargneaux. it is thanks to him that we can go to paris with a broad and strongly held position. i think we can all agree that all sectors must make an effort: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. but of course it is also a matter of driving and taking care of things and, above all, ensuring that the competitiveness of our european energy-intensive industry is not compromised. i am sure that this is one of your concerns too, commissioner. that is why we must, among other things, make every effort to link our unique european emissions trading system with similar models on other continents. that should be one of our goals: a global emissions trading system. that is one of the best tools to achieve low-carbon production. we must of course be and remain at the forefront and also make it clear that this presents enormous opportunities for our industry. i wish the commissioner every success in paris and we are counting on him, of course.
climate change, together with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity, is one of the most important global challenges. doing nothing has irreversible consequences and is harmful to the planet, to people and to the economy. europe has been a leader for years, but it cannot solve the problem alone. it is therefore essential to reach a new international agreement. to succeed in this, europe needs allies. although there are positive signals, for example from the us and china, it remains to be seen whether other countries will actually share the european level of ambition. so, regularly looking over your shoulder to see if anyone's still following you is the message. the resolution before us contains many positive elements which i welcome. but i do think that a greater sense of reality on certain points would strengthen the position of parliament as a credible and influential interlocutor. the reconciliation of ambition and reality is essential to make real progress.
in writing. with a view to cop 21 in paris in early december 2015, parliament, through this resolution which i approved, underlines the extreme importance and gravity of the threats posed by climate change and expresses concern that the international community is significantly moving away from the path to be followed in limiting global warming to 2 °c above pre-industrial levels. the rapporteur calls in particular on the union and its member states to work with all civil society actors to develop initiatives in key sectors for mitigating warming and calls on businesses to accept and actively exercise their responsibilities and promote support for the climate agreement.
in writing. this report clearly shows more ambition than what was agreed by european environment ministers last month. the greens tried to tighten the stakes even further with a proposal to protect the paris climate accords from corporate claims. governments taking action to combat climate change should never be hindered by companies threatening isds claims. it is crucial for the paris negotiations that developing countries receive more guarantees of financial support for their fight against climate change. many rich countries use funds from the development cooperation fund to do this. that's not the point. climate finance should be on top of development aid. in short: the new climate treaty should be legally binding; put the world on a path to complete phasing out of co2 emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter; the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria for the selection of the union's climate change mitigation and adaptation programmes. bring the latest scientific knowledge; aim to end all fossil fuel subsidies by 2020; require international shipping and aviation to reduce their emissions; identify clear sources of climate finance (such as eu ets and revenues from additional fuel taxes); ensure that climate finance does not come at the expense of the development aid budget.
in writing. first, the climate situation has deteriorated. a series of extreme weather events have intensified. 2014 is the warmest year we've ever known. and 2015 is likely to be even hotter. the awareness of the need to act is therefore stronger. the adjective that best describes this negotiation is 'vital'. what ultimately arises from these discussions is the question of life in all its senses. will our planet be viable or not? it is also a vital issue in the sense that if we do not act against climate change, the consequences of this phenomenon will be devastating: drought, famine, floods, mass migration. in the end, it's war or peace. it is not hundreds of thousands, but potentially tens of millions of people who would be affected by migration movements. but let's not get too catastrophized. the solutions, financial and technological, are there, at hand, and they can and must lead us to a rapid and positive change in our growth models, bearing in mind what the unions call a just transition.
i would like to focus on two points, commissioner. first of all: we need to get a full understanding of the mh17 disaster. there were also flemish victims. fifteen months of investigation have been needed to be sure that the plane was shot down by a russian-made buk. but we still don't know who fired the missile. for 15 months, the russian disinformation machine has been spreading confusion and conspiracy theories. there have been attempts to cover up the truth. we need to know everything and bring those responsible to justice. for that reason too, there can be no question of relaxing the sanctions. secondly: local elections will be held on 25 october, but not in donetsk and lugansk. minsk ii must be completed by the end of this year, before 31 december, and the border controls must be completed. but that deadline will not be met. so i want to know what the plan is. what will the eu do to prevent the donbass from being de facto surrendered, as happened with crimea, and to ensure that the region is reintegrated into ukraine?
in writing. ‒ in pursuance of the european union's desire to establish an area of freedom, security and justice, the visa information system (vis) is a system for the exchange of data between the schengen states. in line with the s&d group's position, i believe that improving border management and crossborder travel requires the promotion of instruments such as the vis and the schengen information system (sis ii). in order to ensure the best possible safety for citizens, these existing instruments should be strengthened by ensuring that they respect the fundamental rights of travellers and, in particular, the protection of their data. the report supports the council's proposal to allow the authorities designated by the member states to have access to vis data for the prevention of terrorist acts or serious criminal offences, the previous authorisation for access having been annulled by a judgment of the cjeu. this is why i support this report, which contributes to the exchange of data between member states for greater efficiency and safety.
in writing. the system of data exchange between the schengen member states enables the union to establish not only an area of freedom and justice but also an area of security. this system simplifies border controls but, in turn, increases security. this decision will now allow europol and the competent national authorities to consult the vis database. it is a further step in the prevention of terrorism and the fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ in pursuance of the european union's desire to establish an area of freedom, security and justice, the visa information system constitutes a system for the exchange of data between the member states of the schengen area. the report voted today supports the council's proposal and thus allows the authorities designated by the member states to have access to vis data to prevent terrorist acts, serious criminal offences, etc. these existing instruments should be strengthened by ensuring that they respect the fundamental rights of travellers, including the protection of their personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision setting the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on consultative access to the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by the european police office (europol) for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. we endorse the council's draft on consultative access to the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. this technical adjustment of the revenue of the union budget shall be based on the most recent statistical developments and shall respect the allocation agreed between member states.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance that we give criminals and terrorists as little opportunity as possible to mix with genuine refugees. better information sharing should be the way to stop this. i therefore voted in favour of this solution, in the hope that we can reduce the risks as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's position on this technical budgetary adjustment, which reduces the gni-based own resources by eur 2.26 billion on the grounds that the revenue from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) is higher than expected and that the surplus for 2014 has been entered in the budget. this adjustment does not affect the expenditure entered in the 2015 budget and its impact on revenue is only a change in the distribution of member states' contributions.
in writing. i fully support the decision of the president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, to create a new emergency trust fund for africa, initially with eur 1.8 billion, to address crises in the sahel, lake chad, horn of africa and north africa regions in order to facilitate the return and reintegration of migrants and to prevent further departures. we must, as jean-claude juncker has said, 'bring back stability in a sustainable way ... by creating job opportunities in local communities, and thus tackling the root causes of instability, forced displacement and illegal migration'.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 concerns the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources and the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corresponding uk corrections and their financing, which have the effect of altering the distribution of their contributions to the union budget between member states. the draft amending budget also provides for the opening of two new budget lines for expenditure in support of the trust funds managed by the commission, in the fields of development and cooperation and enlargement, and for an amendment to the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (which does not, however, alter the total number of posts and the office's budget). this is therefore a vote on a technical adjustment of the revenue of the union budget which is based on the most recent statistical developments and respects the agreed allocation between member states and which does not affect the expenditure entered in the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 own resources, union trust fund for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. it is noted that, compared to the initial 2015 budget, national contributions to the budget under own resources based on gni may be reduced by eur 2,26 billion on the grounds that the revenue from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) is higher than expected, namely eur 1 133,5 million, and that the surplus for 2014 was entered in the budget in accordance with amending budget no 3/2015; this technical adjustment of the revenue of the union budget shall be based on the most recent statistical developments and shall respect the agreed allocation between member states.
in writing. ‒ the flexibility instrument is used to finance certain expenditure which could not be met within the limits of the ceilings available under the headings of the multiannual financial framework. in order to finance support for measures to manage the refugee crisis, the commission proposes to mobilise this instrument to the tune of eur 66.1 million above the ceiling for expenditure under the heading security and citizenship (heading 3). in view of the urgency and gravity of the consequences of the migration crisis, it is imperative to provide adequate financial support to implement the necessary measures. i therefore voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is not just a migration problem. it's about our sense of humanity and how we're prepared to defend it, to protect it. nor is it a european problem only. every state in the world must intervene to the best of its ability. at european level, we must put in place a responsible and supportive migration policy for the long term and actively tackle the causes of migration flows. the dublin ii regulation has shown its limits. we must refuse to renationalize the debate and, on the contrary, harmonize asylum policies and procedures for the protection of persons, by sanctioning refugee status in line with the geneva convention. the states must act together in the council and ensure that the proposals put forward by the commission are implemented swiftly. the list of countries with which close cooperation is to be established must also be unique. we cannot accept blackmail from third countries. only a european policy guided by the spirit of community and respect for the individual can make a significant improvement in the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration (budg text by mr gardiazabal rubial).
in writing. ‒ i supported this budgetary adjustment which aims to strengthen the eu's capacity to deal with the migration crisis it is facing. the commission is also proposing to increase emergency aid under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund by eur 100 million, create 120 new jobs in frontex, easo and europol, provide additional appropriations for the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 300 million, provide payment appropriations for humanitarian aid by eur 55.7 million, and provide for the establishment of a european union agency for asylum, migration and integration. the rapporteur stresses the commission's rapid response to the current refugee crisis and believes that the proposed measures must go hand in hand with initiatives to address the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis. it called on the union to redouble its efforts to overcome the current situation by contributing to the stabilisation of countries of origin and by assisting transit countries. it also welcomed the commitment by member states to mobilise eur 1 billion to respond to the humanitarian situation of migrants and refugees.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of draft amending budget no 7/2015 on the management of the refugee crisis. parliament wants to make up for the lack of funding which is currently affecting the management of the migration crisis. i am particularly pleased that this amending budget proposes, among other things, to create 120 new jobs in the frontex, europol and easo agencies. we also believe that more staff should be made available to the latter agency, given its essential role in the management of asylum applications. in the context of the implementation of a genuine migration policy at european level, easo is indeed called upon to play a crucial role. in this perspective, and since the management of migration flows must be the subject of a long-term policy, we must give this agency the mandate and the means (financial and personnel) to carry out effectively the tasks assigned to it.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is not just a migration problem. it's about our sense of humanity and how we're prepared to defend it, to protect it. nor is it a european problem only. every state in the world must intervene to the best of its ability. at european level, we must put in place a responsible and supportive migration policy for the long term and actively tackle the causes of migration flows. the dublin ii regulation has shown its limits. we must refuse to renationalize the debate and, on the contrary, harmonize asylum policies and procedures for the protection of persons, by sanctioning refugee status in line with the geneva convention. the states must act together in the council and ensure that the proposals put forward by the commission are implemented swiftly. the list of countries with which close cooperation is to be established must also be unique. we cannot accept blackmail from third countries. only a european policy guided by the spirit of community and respect for the individual can make a significant improvement in the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 (management of the refugee crisis: immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration), as verified by the experts of my political group.
in writing. ‒ addressing the current refugee crisis naturally has financial implications, for which urgent action is needed. we did that at the brussels ministerial meeting.
in writing. ‒ i supported the waiver of mr kovacs' immunity so that he could explain himself before the courts of his country in relation to the charges against him.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr béla kovács's immunity, so that the hungarian judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts accusation of espionage against the institutions of the european union can, in any event, give rise to a criminal investigation, without prejudice to the guilt or innocence of the member. it is essential that justice can shed light on this particularly sensitive and potentially damaging case in more than one way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of bela kovacs so that the mep can explain himself to the authorities in his country.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of ms tsanova as deputy director of the efsi. this is obviously a key function for the implementation of the efsi, which must in particular ensure job creation.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the bulgarian economist iliyana tsanova on her new role as deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. this is a key item in the implementation of the juncker plan, which aims to restore growth and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of ms iliyana tsanova (bulgaria, currently director of the european bank for reconstruction and development ebrd) as deputy director of the efsi. ms tsanova had been previously interviewed and her candidacy selected by the econ and budg parliamentary committees. this appointment, together with that of the executive director, enables the juncker fund to officially start the launch of projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the candidacy of ms iliyana tsanova.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of mr molterer as executive director of the efsi. this is obviously a key function for the implementation of the fund, which must in particular ensure job creation.
in writing. i congratulate mr wilhelm molterer, vice-president of the eib since 2011, on his appointment as executive director, responsible for the day-to-day management of the efsi and for preparing and chairing the meetings of the investment committee. with this appointment, which has received broad support in the committees on budgets and economic affairs, we can start financing the projects selected under the juncker plan which meet the real needs of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of mr wilhelm molterer (austria, eib vice-president since 2011) as executive director of the efsi steering committee. he had already been audited and preselected by the econ and budg parliamentary committees. the eib will also be responsible for the day-to-day management of the efsi and for the preparation and chairing of the investment committee meetings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of mr wilhelm molterer.
in writing. ‒ a new protocol on climate change will be negotiated at the un climate conference cop 21 in paris from 7 to 12 december 2015. the resolution adopted gives the european parliament's delegation the mandate to negotiate; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted for the resolution here deliberately to give europe a strong position vis-à-vis other partners, to encourage them to make the same effort. i am also in favour of an ambitious and above all binding reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ with a view to cop 21 in paris in early december 2015, parliament, through this resolution which i have approved, underlines the extreme importance and gravity of the threats posed by climate change and expresses concern that the international community is significantly moving away from the path to be followed in limiting global warming to 2 °c above pre-industrial levels. the rapporteur calls in particular on the union and its member states to work with all civil society actors to develop initiatives in key sectors for mitigating warming and calls on businesses to accept and actively exercise their responsibilities and promote support for the climate agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this ambitious report. in particular, i voted for the provisions calling for the 2015 climate protocol to be adopted at the paris conference to be legally binding and ambitious in aiming for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the upper range recommended by the ipcc, which ranges from 40 to 70 per cent by 2050 compared to 2010, in order to keep the world on a low-cost emission reduction pathway consistent with the goal of limiting global warming to 2 degrees. following closely!
in writing. - i voted in favour of my distinguished colleague's report. we now call on the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to define strategic priorities for external climate policy, enshrined in the overall foreign policy objectives, and to ensure that union delegations place greater emphasis on climate policies, on monitoring countries' efforts to mitigate or adapt to climate change, and on supporting capacity building, and that they have the necessary means to undertake climate monitoring actions. parliament called on the eu to cooperate more closely on climate issues with neighbouring and candidate countries to encourage them to align their policies with the eu's climate objectives.
‒ climate change is one of the most important global challenges, along with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity. non-policy has irreversible consequences and is harmful to the planet, people and economy. for the n-va, the future of our children and grandchildren comes first. we fully recognize the climate problem and want to tackle both its effects and its causes. a new international agreement is of fundamental importance in this respect. europe is leading the way, but setting a good example is not enough. the eu cannot solve the problem alone, we need allies. we find it by reconciling ambition with a sense of reality. indeed, the choices we make today must be sustainable, efficient and effective so that we can sustain them for years to come. the mandate for the ep delegation to the paris climate summit certainly has positive elements, but it is first and foremost a missed opportunity. the resolution lacks realism and does not take into account the conclusions of the european council of 23 and 24 october 2014. the european parliament is thus undermining its position as a credible and influential interlocutor. that is why the n-va delegation abstained. in conclusion: "if you think you're leading, but no one's following, you're just walking".
mr president, i am not speaking because it is the anniversary of a green march. but this anniversary will take place at about the same time as the november i part-session, the mini-session in brussels. i therefore think that we can accede to the gue group's request by placing this debate in this micro-session that we will be holding in brussels.
for the ecr group tackling tax fraud and tax evasion is crucial. if we all want to pay lower taxes, we must also make sure that everyone pays his fair share. we are debating three dossiers today. two of them are good technical dossiers which enable us to bring our legislation into line with international standards and to eliminate unnecessary legislation. that's a good thing. we are also discussing a third issue, namely the automatic sharing of information on tax rulings. i do have a few questions about that. i was very pleased with the proposal from the european commission. transparency and information sharing are crucial in this area. that is why, as of 1 january, our finance minister, johan van overtveldt, will actually start passing on this information to other eu member states. but then the european commission's dossier went to the european parliament and i think something may have gone wrong there. in a number of amendments parliament seems to be opting for more bureaucracy and more streamlined procedures. i don't think we need that. if we are to tackle tax fraud seriously, we must also focus, we must choose where we are going to put our resources in the most efficient and effective way. that is precisely what parliament's amendments are threatening to jeopardize. if i may give one example: why would we share information on all tax rulings instead of focusing precisely on rulings with an international impact and a link between different member states? finally, i am very pleased that the european council has taken the wise decision to approve the better regulation in advance.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as so often happens, the news catches up with the political momentum, and the commission has just demonstrated this to us, as it has just experienced by establishing that the tax breaks granted to fiat and starbucks by luxembourg and the netherlands were in fact disguised state subsidies. so now we know that it's not just immoral, it's illegal. and very clearly, if this text had been voted in 2011 or 2012, everything in the text we are about to vote on would not have allowed these tax evasion. and so, clearly, this case shows us that the european council has not yet grasped the importance of the issue. i really think that parliament's text is much more ambitious than the decision of 6 october last, and i would like to thank and congratulate our colleague markus ferber and all the fictitious rapporteurs. it is obviously a compromise text, and i would like to stress a few important points. the first, as has been said, is obviously the scope. all tax records of multinationals, without exception, must be analysed, whether national or international, and without time limit, otherwise what is the point? who else are we trying to protect? secondly, as we all know, rules are only effective if there are penalties. and that is what parliament is asking for, that there should be sanctions if the member states do not want to play along, or if they are slow in sending information or sending incorrect information. thirdly, we obviously want to strengthen the role of the commission in this process. we all know that we cannot be both judge and party. no system works when you are both judge and party, and yet that is what the council wants to achieve. fourthly, to combat these abuses, we must obviously call for greater transparency. but real transparency, not cosmetic transparency. you know that too much information kills information, and what we ask for and what is foreseen in this text is that there should be a publication that is clear, accessible and understandable to all, not just for specialists. finally, i would like to conclude with one final point: all companies operating in more than one country will receive a european identification number. i think this is essential to make it easier to monitor and to reduce the administrative burden. i hope, therefore, commissioner, that you will support this proposal, because apart from a few multinationals and a few member states, it is the whole of europe that is losing out, and it cannot continue to be this way.
the european parliament may not have a formal right to decide on this matter, but the unanimity with which we advocate a really effective exchange mechanism is a signal that the council cannot and must not ignore. only by giving the commission a central role in this exchange and giving it access to essential information on tax rulings can new tax scandals be avoided. the fear of the member states trying to shield these rulings from state aid investigations is, however, at times a painful spectacle. the founding countries themselves recognised that the common market could only flourish if a european authority was in place to ensure that individual member states did not grant aid that distorted competition. that is precisely why the commission was given the task of acting against unlawful state aid. why, then, this useful information on tax rulings granted should remain with the commission at this particular time remains a mystery to me. the perverse thing is that these cramped and misguided attempts to 'protect national sovereignty' end up playing member states against each other, playing the cards for multinationals and presenting the bill to citizens and smes.
in the package travel case, it was important to strike the right balance between protecting the rights of consumers and those of the tourism sector. i think we have succeeded in doing so, thanks to the good leadership of our rapporteur. consumers who book online will enjoy the same level of protection as those who book through a travel agency. they will also be protected against price increases, service provider bankruptcies and unforeseen and unavoidable situations such as natural disasters, such as we have seen with the eruption of the volcano in iceland. it also lays down clear rules on the termination of the contract and on the information to be provided by traders before, during and after the conclusion of the contract. on the other hand, we have also managed to ensure that we do not regulate the sectors concerned to the detriment of others by means of superfluous or bad regulation.
in writing. 67% of european citizens feel they are protected when buying online package holidays; it is not. the legislation on this subject dates from 1990 and does not take any account of this new type of online service, which now accounts for almost one in four journeys in europe. the vote this afternoon was therefore intended to protect the 138 million consumers who use these combined journeys better and to save them the inconvenience of, for example, an unjustified price increase, the bankruptcy of their operator, excessive changes in timetable or unforeseen events. almost 200 million european citizens visit an online travel site every month. it was time to dust off european legislation. we wanted to ensure that holidaymakers who combine their own holiday 'packages' from online travel services are better protected, as they do not benefit from the same coverage as those who go through traditional travel agencies. it is a step towards better protection of the rights of the european consumer.
i am also against the death penalty. i condemn torture. i am therefore very pleased that we are taking a serious step forward today in the control of products which can be used for these purposes. i am also glad that we are doing so in a sensible, clear, flexible and proportionate way. for example, by working with a number of specific lists of goods that can be adapted quickly, we provide clarity to importers and exporters and provide flexibility on the ground. and by regulating medicines specifically, for example, and not in a general safety net regulation, i think we can also ensure the lawful use of those medicines. that's a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are therefore setting up a proportionate model and, in my view, taking another ambitious and realistic step forward in promoting our values.
the european parliament has always been a party to the european convention on human rights, and it is the european parliament that has been the guardian of the rights of the individual. i support the principle and spirit of this initiative, not because of the so-called idea of european integration, but because it is a means of drawing the attention of the european commission and the elected representatives of the european parliament to certain themes and to major or minor social problems. the more than meritorious schöpflin report states that the success of the european citizens' initiative is waning. this involves placing the finger on the wound. many initiatives fail and the few that survive the complexity of the procedure are not followed up on the legislative level. that is why our group is calling not only for the removal of practical obstacles and the user-friendliness of the initiative instrument, but also for an obligation on the commission to follow up a successful european citizens' initiative with an appropriate proposal. that is why we are tabled our amendments.
member of the commission.– mr president, as you know, i am here on behalf of my colleague, kristalina georgieva. in this respect i would like to thank you again for the opportunity to take the floor during this year’s joint debate on the discharges for the council – the joint undertakings and european institute of innovation and technology (eit) – and welcome the proposals to grant discharge to those undertakings and the eit. the joint undertakings subject to the discharge today have made major improvements as regards their management and control systems, and the commission will continue to provide them with advice and support on their continued efforts to address the concerns of the european parliament.
mr president, as commissioner marianne thyssen has requested, it is essential to establish the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place. intra-european wage competition, often referred to as 'social dumping', is a real cancer for the development of the european project. i therefore welcome the unanimous decision of the college of commissioners to support the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. this is essential work and the commission will have to act quickly, even though we know that it will not be easy to reach an ambitious agreement. for some member states, this competition endangers entire sectors of the economy; for others, secondment offers a chance to make up for lost time. the commission will therefore have to be creative in preserving the mobility of workers while putting an end to practices of social competition. this also requires the strengthening of national inspection services and the establishment of a european social inspectorate. i therefore call for a win-win solution that will restore prospects for the future for european citizens and workers.
mr president, we are about to vote on an important text which has two parts. the first is the abolition of roaming charges: we wanted it even earlier, by 15 december 2015, instead of 15 june 2017. but we can only welcome this, in the interests of all european consumers and in view of the single market, which is truly unique in this respect. the other part is net neutrality, of course, with data flow management, which could also pose some problems with the notion of emergency threat, which could of course reopen the possibility of a two-speed internet. the zero rate approach must be banned. and to that end, i propose that, in order to be clear and to avoid any lack of precision weakening net neutrality, you support a series of amendments: amendments 2, 4 to 9 and 11 to 23, which could at any rate clarify the shadow areas and guarantee the best protection for european citizens, which is still the aim of this text in globo. i think we can do that and vote on the text later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's telecommunications sector. however, i welcome the fact that a definitive date has finally been set for the abolition of roaming charges in the interests of consumers. we have free movement of persons, goods and services in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's telecommunications infrastructure is not affected by the current crisis. however, in addition to the late abolition of roaming charges, i am critical of the fact that telecommunications providers will still have the possibility to provide for special rules after 2017 when users use mobile phones abroad in the eu more frequently than when they travel occasionally. we must be very careful in future, and this is a call to the commission to ensure that the population in a border region is not put at a disadvantage, that crossborder work is not made more difficult. in border regions, people do not cross borders only when they are travelling, but they also live in europe every day. the border people shouldn't have to pay for this.
in writing. finally, the desire to see roaming charges abolished for calling, sending sms or surfing the net from another eu country! it is now up to the european commission to make this abolition effective by reforming the 'wholesale roaming market' by june 2017. if you are convinced of the european project, as i am, and if you want to defend the mobility of europeans, you must avoid paying an extra price for being able to communicate from abroad.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i think that we will have more and more of these small british interruptions on the british referendum. (applause from certain quarters) applause, applause! thank you. so the first thing i want to do is say to manfred weber that this refugee crisis is not a contest between liberals, socialists or christian democrats. it is not a contest. anyway we always lose against you, manfred, because if you have on your side orbán, who is a tough guy, and merkel who shows compassion, you always win and you are always right. in reality it is not a contest between us; it is a contest between those nationalists and populists who want to abuse this refugee crisis to get rid of europe and to destroy the european union – that is the real contest, and not between us. (applause)so let us stop making accusations, saying this government and that government. the problem is all the governments in europe, because that is what jean-claude juncker has shown – in 25 minutes – and i thank him for doing so in a very detailed way. what he said was a long list of decisions taken at european level have not been implemented by the member states for months now. when it concerns relocation, not enough has been done. when it concerns the budget, not enough has been done. when it concerns sending civil servants for the external borders, not enough has been done. the problem is not here, between political groups; the problem is that member states still do not understand that they can only manage this problem at european level. that is what we are facing today. and there we stand together. there is no reason for a battle between us because this battle is only good for them over there, with their blue cards, to attack the european project because this is an existential crisis; an existential crisis that can only be overcome if – based on the commission, mr tusk – now the council decides on what is, in my opinion, the first thing to do, that is the european border and coastguard so that we can regain control over our borders. that does not mean that we have to create a fortress europe. that means that it is together – in greece, in bulgaria – that we have to control the border, register the different refugees who are coming, establishing facilities so that they can live in good circumstances and not as in the images that we have seen in recent days and recent weeks. it is there that we can differentiate between those who are economic migrants and real refugees, and it is there where we can organise the relocation. so if i have one plea to mr tusk then it is this: let us work together, mr tusk. i know it is not your fault, it is the council – at least the december council – that will decide on this european border and coastguard because the greek border does not exist, the bulgarian border does not exist. the greek border and the bulgarian border: that is also the german border, the french border, the dutch border, the belgian border, it is our common border, so that means it is our common responsibility. and that is what you have to decide because it is there where the balkan route can be stopped; not in the western balkans, but on the bulgarian border. in greece, there we have to create this european border and coastguard that has to be multinational and that has to deal with registration and at the same time with relocation. the second point is that in the council – my proposal to you is not to give your colleagues in the council a christmas break if they cannot decide now on this common asylum system that we definitely need and on this common economic migration system that we desperately need, because everybody knows that many people are abusing the asylum system in the end to come into europe. that is at stake. in december, that is in a few weeks, do not give them a break, do not go on holiday, keep them there in that building, that eastern european—type building where the council has its seat for the moment, and make these three crucial decisions. finally – and this is my last plea to you, mr tusk, and i know that you are in favour – take the decision once and for all to give a mandate to mrs mogherini to start initiatives also at her level, at the level of europe, on the source of this crisis. nobody talked about it: the source of this crisis is the ongoing conflict in syria and we have looked away for years from that conflict. it is time that the european council gave a mandate to ms mogherini to start, really, in the name of europe, to be involved, because i find it a shame, i find it outrageous that in vienna – you were there, mrs mogherini, in vienna a few days ago – in vienna there is a meeting – in vienna, in the middle, in the centre of europe – there is a meeting about syria and who is around the table? the us, russia, saudi arabia and turkey, but no europeans are around that table. at least at the congress of vienna in 1815 we were around the table. this time, in the 21st century, we do it in europe and we are not even present! it is just like the summit in the azores organised by mr barroso on iraq; no europeans were around the table there either, and there in the middle of europe – that is, not the middle but on the outskirts of europe – something was also decided. so this time my plea is: let us give a mandate to mrs mogherini, and please, mrs mogherini, use it fully. break the door of these meetings open and be present and represent the european point of view. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have nothing against blue cards because they are blue. the colour of my group is blue, so i have nothing against them. secondly, i have nothing against blue cards as blue is also the colour of the european union. so every time you wave your blue card, i say: ‘yes, we have converted one of these eurosceptics, he is using a european colour’. so please continue. i like your blue cards!
mr president, mr president of the commission, i should like to begin by congratulating you on the initiative you have taken and the 17 measures you have approved. those of you who have seen these horrific images of refugees - men, women, children - crossing a frozen river have understood the humanitarian emergency. that said, two thoughts. the external border is a common border - you have recalled this - and what is common must be managed in common. i do not want to be told that frontex, with its current status, is the appropriate instrument for this. frontex is currently a beggar, a beggar who is asking the member states for equipment, ships, experts and coastguards. it's not an operator who organizes. we must put an end to the pretence! if the common border is to be managed jointly, the status of frontex must be fundamentally revised; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the border guard system is not disrupted. you also stressed the need for cooperation with transit countries, in particular turkey. i agree with you. but negotiating with erdogan who, under the pretext of fighting terrorism, is actually bombing the turks - which is the islamic state's business - negotiating with erdogan who, obviously, is doing nothing against the smuggling industry that is flourishing in the bodrum area is a risky bet. there is one rule, mr president: for short-term aid from turkey, the european union's counterpart can only be short-term and not structural.
how far can cynicism go? the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. "we buy it ourselves" seems to be the motto, but we don't care. there is no more radical, profound and effective way of making the citizens of europe realise that this union does not take their opinions into account, that this union has nothing to do with democracy, than the way in which you have abused the free movement of goods and people to organise one of the largest flows of migration in our history. in the social and economic spheres too, it has become clear in recent years that the european union has taken the place of the citizens of europe. look at the coup d'état of the european union in portugal. but there is really no clearer picture of the implosion of democracy in europe than your mismanagement, your blackmail and your manipulation of migration.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the the only result of the mini-summit is that 100 000 additional shelters will be built along the balkan route. - is that all? - yes. the exodus towards western europe, including economic migrants, is continuing and is now merely being better organized. the commission wanted to establish practical arrangements for short-term results. i would have liked to have proposed a similar solution, namely pushbacks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not worsened. however, the conditions under which this is possible have never been seriously examined. greece alone was the entry point for half a million people in 2015. turkey is now using these asylum seekers as a bargaining chip for visa liberalisation or even eu accession. this in return for better surveillance of the eu coastline. why would you do that? because the eu can no longer or no longer wants to guard its external borders. the eu has a moral duty to stop attracting fortune seekers through the de facto open borders policy.
in writing. we call on the european commission and the member states to join forces and to develop a genuine common asylum policy. the european asylum policy must be based on solidarity and the right to asylum for those who need our protection, on the one hand, and on a responsible return policy for those who are not fleeing war or persecution, on the other. it's only natural that we should really focus on those who need our help the most. the proposals put forward by mr juncker are concrete and effective. it is now up to the member states, with the help of european resources and european staff posted, to swiftly implement the european agenda on migration, speed up asylum procedures, support the construction of reception camps and develop a coordinated return policy. we must also quickly put in place a common european coast and border guard to guard the external borders.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which proposes the abolition of certain agricultural and fisheries legislation which is no longer relevant today either because its content has been taken up by later texts or because of its temporary nature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. these are merely corrections to the existing text, a kind of update of which i share the developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for an agreement between the eu and switzerland on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this exchange of information is expected to be implemented in 2018. in the current context and in the wake of the swissleaks cases, it was essential to conclude an agreement to increase tax cooperation in order to combat tax evasion. the agreement contains certain provisions aimed at limiting the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities by transferring their assets or investing in financial products that do not fall within the scope of the agreement. the information to be exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text of this resolution, which regrets that the draft council decision has not brought any improvement, in particular as regards the level of information transmitted or the automatic, mandatory and unrestricted nature of the exchange of information with switzerland. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the commission to take action to combat fraud and tax evasion and urging the council to take action to combat fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. this agreement marks an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion, and reinforces the 2004 agreement which ensured that switzerland applies measures equivalent to those provided for in the union's savings tax directive. the agreement provides that the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2018. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid.
in writing. ‒ in its tax transparency package of march 2015, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive while keeping the 2008 one, so that member states would not have to apply the provisions of both directives, thus avoiding the inconvenience caused by duplicate data collection and reporting systems. this report, which i voted for, calls for this to be done while highlighting the shortcomings of the savings directive: - bilateral agreements between the european union and third countries will continue to exist regardless of the repeal of the directive. - the commission has not been given a mandate to negotiate agreements on automatic exchange of information with the 12 overseas territories of the european union. - certain products, mostly low-risk deposit accounts recommended for savings purposes, will no longer be subject to notifications under the administrative cooperation directive. while the risks of tax fraud are low, it is considered important that the commission continue to monitor that the repeal of the directive does not create a loophole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the repeal of the savings tax directive. this directive had to be repealed, since the provisions on the exchange of information were extended in the context of the revision of the directive on administrative cooperation, adopted a few months ago after the council's agreement on the taxation of savings.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and the need for fair taxation are major concerns at both european and global level. while there has been great progress internationally, it is important to exercise caution when repealing an existing directive that has been respected for several years. the scope of financial products covered by the savings tax directive and the administrative cooperation directive, although similar, are not exactly identical. some products, for most low-risk deposit accounts recommended for savings purposes, will no longer be subject to disclosure under the administrative cooperation directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it proposed that the commission should report to the european parliament once all member states had drawn up their national lists of low-risk accounts.
in writing. ‒ in the 2007 prüm treaty, several eu states committed themselves, in an intergovernmental framework, to intensifying the exchange of data in order to step up cross-border cooperation and combat terrorism and international crime more effectively. these data exchanges concern fingerprints, vehicle registration numbers and dna. before participating in the exchange system, each country must pass tests on the protection of personal data. sweden has passed these tests and the council therefore wishes to be able to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data within the framework of the treaty. i supported this point, as data exchange is an essential means of increasing security within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to launch the automated data exchange on fingerprint data in sweden. such systematization of trade and the strengthening of crossborder cooperation will be useful in the field of law enforcement and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data, following the political group's informed opinion.
in writing. ‒ in the 2007 prüm treaty, several eu states committed themselves, in an intergovernmental framework, to intensifying the exchange of data in order to step up cross-border cooperation and combat terrorism and international crime more effectively. these data exchanges concern fingerprints, vehicle registration numbers and dna. before participating in the exchange system, each country must pass tests on the protection of personal data. since belgium has passed these tests, the council wishes that it should be able to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data within the framework of the treaty. i supported this point, as the exchange of data is an essential means of increasing security within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to launch the automated data exchange on fingerprint data in belgium. such systematization of trade and the strengthening of crossborder cooperation will be useful in the field of law enforcement and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data, following the political group's informed opinion.
in writing. ‒ in the 2007 prüm treaty, several eu states committed themselves, in an intergovernmental framework, to intensifying the exchange of data in order to step up cross-border cooperation and to combat terrorism and international crime more effectively. these data exchanges concern fingerprints, vehicle registration numbers and dna. before participating in the exchange system, each country must pass tests on the protection of personal data. since poland has passed these tests, the council therefore wishes to be able to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data within the framework of the treaty. i supported this point, as the exchange of data is an essential means of increasing security within the union,
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to launch the automated data exchange on fingerprint data in poland. such systematization of trade and the strengthening of crossborder cooperation will be useful in the field of law enforcement and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data, following the political group's informed opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which helps to better protect european citizens who buy package holidays online. this will help them to avoid the inconvenience of unjustified price increases, the bankruptcy of their operator, excessive changes in working hours or unforeseen events.
in writing. ‒ the package travel agreement is a step in the right direction, but it is not yet perfect. we would actually like to see much better consumer protection for click-through bookings, where consumers book a night through the airline's website, for example. we must also be careful not to jeopardise the many smes in the sector. the new rules should therefore be evaluated quickly and thoroughly and, if necessary, updated by the european commission. but now we must look ahead. the agreement takes the protection of travellers to a higher level and also protects them when making online reservations. it is now up to the member states to transpose this agreement into national law as wisely as possible.
in writing. more and more holidaymakers are booking a combined package holiday online. in addition to a plane ticket, they book a rental car and a hotel overnight. the adoption of the directive will improve the protection of the 120 million european travellers who book online package holidays. the new duties will reduce the damage to travellers in the european union by eur 430 million annually. among other things, travellers will have more options to cancel their trip free of charge in the event of an unannounced higher cost or in the event of a natural disaster or terrorist attack.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the european parliament voted for a directive that will give the 120 million european citizens who book their package holidays online the same protection as those who book through a travel agency. the rules were written in a law from 1990, a long time ago when the internet was not even born! the new legislation now takes into account the new way in which travellers plan their combined trips with the help of new technological tools and erases this injustice in the treatment of consumers. the new rules will give travellers a range of rights in the event of problems: repatriation and reimbursement in the event of the tour operator's bankruptcy, and the organiser's coverage of three nights in the event of an unavoidable and unforeseeable event such as a natural disaster or terrorist attack that would prevent travellers from returning home on time. the traveller will also have the right to cancel his trip without incurring any additional costs if the price of the trip increases by more than 8% or if there are significant changes in the main characteristics of the trip such as the date of the trip, the flight schedule or the tourist category of accommodation.
in writing. ‒ consumers who buy air tickets or travel services online will now enjoy the same level of protection as those who use a travel agency. today we have finally approved the adaptation of the directive on package holidays and assisted travel. with this revised legislation, the rights of travellers in europe are strengthened overall. new booking models are now included in its scope and travellers are informed in detail of their rights. among other innovations, the legislation provides: - the right of the consumer to cancel a package tour whose price has increased by more than 8% without justification; - the right of the consumer to benefit from three nights of accommodation paid for by the organiser if the consumer is prevented, for some unforeseeable reason, from returning home; - consumer protection against the bankruptcy of package tour operators; - the possibility for the traveller to cancel a contract free of charge in exceptional circumstances. member states will have two years to transpose this directive into national law, which responds to the urgent need to modernise the old 1990 directive.
in writing. ‒ package holidays are holidays offered where various elements, such as transport, accommodation and activities, are included in the price. there is already a european directive on this subject, but it dates from 1990 and is out of date because certain market structures, such as the use of the internet, are not included in the text. the new directive should ensure a healthy balance between consumer protection and the need to protect retailers in this sector. the text, after a second reading by parliament, gives a clear description of these package holidays and of the differences with linked travel arrangements. this provides a clear demarcation of the different sectors, thereby providing consumers with information in a more transparent manner. it was important to me that consumer protection remained, while at the same time preventing retailers, who often offer better and more sustainable travel arrangements, from being overtaken by large companies that take over the market completely. i support this directive because it contains this balance. it is essential that all this be followed up properly so that these measures do not remain a blank canvas and are properly applied.
in writing. ‒ it was time to dust off european legislation. we wanted to ensure that holidaymakers who combine their own holiday 'packages' from online travel services are better protected as they do not benefit from the same coverage as those who go through traditional travel agencies. it is a step towards better protection of european consumer rights
in writing. ‒ european legislation has been in place for some time to protect citizens who book package holidays or travel arrangements. however, this protection did not yet exist for people who booked travel, transport, hotels, etc. separately, for example via the internet. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ despite some weaknesses, i support the agreement reached with the council on the single market for electronic communications, as it brings good prospects for the consumer. we have in fact got the roaming charges for calls, sms and data in the union to end by july 2017. we also guaranteed net neutrality in this agreement by ensuring an open, non-discriminatory, transparent internet with clear rights for end users. under the agreement, blocking, degrading or discriminating against online content will be prohibited and exceptions to this general principle will be clearly defined, for example, to counter a cyber attack and prevent traffic congestion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am convinced that a single market for telephone and internet services will benefit both businesses and consumers. it is also a great plus that one of the main liberal demands the abolition of roaming is finally becoming a reality. the principle of net neutrality is also strongly entrenched, which is important for an open internet that must give all opportunities to innovation and new startups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new telecommunications package. the abolition of roaming charges was long awaited by all european citizens, but also by start-ups and smes. thanks to the vote on the telecoms package, this abolition will be effective from 15 june 2017 and european citizens will finally be able to move freely without incurring additional costs for mobile telephony and network access (calls, sms, data) throughout the european area. i welcome the vote, although i would have liked a more ambitious and clearer agreement on the other major issue in this legislation: net neutrality. of course, the text adopted provides the legal guarantee of an open internet in europe, which should avoid the risk of having a two-speed internet, but i consider that parliament's initial position on the principle of net neutrality was more ambitious, clearer and more precise.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the european parliament approved the text on the single european electronic communications market. it is the kind of legislation that has a real impact on the lives of european citizens. the text will eventually lead to a total ban on roaming charges for the use of mobile phones abroad in the union by june 2017. this means that calling abroad or surfing the internet via your smartphone in another member state will no longer incur additional costs. a first transitional ceiling will be effective from april 2016 and will reduce the current additional costs of €0.19 per minute for outgoing voice calls, €0.06 for sms and €0.20 per megabyte for mobile internet use. the initiative was introduced by former liberal commissioner neelie kroes in 2010. this is therefore an important step taken by parliament. the less ambitious "open internet" component requires internet service providers to ensure equal treatment of data flows on the net. on this important point, i regret that the negotiations have led to an ambiguous and equivocal agreement which does not live up to the expectations for the union's single telecommunications market.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the 'telecom package' is motivated in particular by the desire to see roaming charges for telephoning, sending sms or surfing the net from another eu country abolished. it is now up to the commission to make this abolition effective by reforming the 'wholesale roaming market' by june 2017. if we are convinced of the european project, as i am, and if we want to defend the mobility of europeans, we must avoid an extra price to pay for being able to communicate from abroad. in addition, net neutrality must be enshrined, so that all forms of internet traffic are treated in the same way by companies providing internet access. no exceptional scheme in the light of the conditions set out in the regulation may be discriminatory, since it risks creating a two-speed internet.
in writing. ‒ the package put to the vote today was another of neelie kroes' proposals to liberalise and harmonise the telecommunications market. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances. today, our amendments on net neutrality were voted down by a majority of the ep. this is a threat to freedom and innovation on the internet, and consumers and small online start-ups are the victims of the slave trade. this creates a two-speed internet, with privileged access for those who can afford it. so that means class discrimination on the internet, which is opposing new online start-ups. in contrast, direct roaming charges will be abolished as of 15 june 2017, but they contain provisions that undermine this, such as the definition of 'reasonable use'. it will determine how much consumers have to pay when they are over there. in addition, in exceptional circumstances, where a provider fails to cover the roaming charges incurred, it may still pass on the costs to consumers. since our green amendments on net neutrality failed and i do not find myself in this package, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ meps will have to vote on tuesday on a text that is at the heart of many aspirations: the abolition of roaming charges but also the introduction of european principles on net neutrality: a great step forward for consumers. however, some european governments (the council), acting on the advice of telecom operators, have weakened the legislative proposal to limit the shortfall in profits of these large companies. the final round of this battle will be played on tuesday to offer consumers the best possible legislation.
in writing. ‒ for the n-va, the eu has a great added value in the realisation of a digital single market. it will contribute to increasing competitiveness and creating growth and jobs, with strong guarantees on privacy and data protection. the roaming charges may be abolished as of 2017, but this does not mean that national and international operators are connected free of charge. these costs will be passed on to the consumer in a different way. this is not getting enough attention. the overall picture is positive and fits in with the completion of the internal market. however, we must not forget that the consumers who do not or rarely travel will pay the cost of those who go abroad several times a year. the n-va is satisfied that net neutrality is becoming more and more clearly defined. we are looking for opportunities for operators to offer new (specialized) services with guaranteed quality, as long as they guarantee that the regular internet remains of sufficient quality.
in writing. ‒ not only was it time for european citizens to communicate with each other on eu territory via mobile phones at no extra cost, but we also needed to pay attention to so-called net neutrality. i voted for this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported the proposal as amended by the committee on international affairs to strengthen the legal framework on the prevention of torture, and more particularly to prevent the export of goods and substances which could be used for the execution of such acts. the existing union prohibition on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment would therefore have an extended scope. the union maintains a firm opposition in principle to torture, the abolition of which is one of the main priorities of the union's human rights policy. torture is a cruel and inhuman act. thirty years after the adoption of the landmark convention against torture, and despite almost universal condemnation of the practice, torture remains a global scourge. it is therefore urgent to act to reverse this trend and to strengthen all the means available to achieve this.
in writing. ‒ europe has an important role to play in the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty. the 2005 anti-torture regulation already sets up an export control system for products that are or may be used in capital punishment or torture cases. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the current regulation does, however, contain a number of shortcomings which it is high time to address. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because the technical updates proposed by the commission are essential and aim at ensuring stricter controls. the idea is to expand the current eu ban to include services, finance, transport and insurance. the aim is also to prohibit the transit of goods prohibited by the eu and listed in the 2005 regulation. we have also revised the annex which lists safe countries to which exports of controlled medicinal substances do not require authorization.
in writing. ‒ following parliament's resolution of 17 june 2010, the commission published a proposal to amend the 'regulation against goods intended for torture' (regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment). i have of course supported this text in parliament which proposes, in addition to the current regime prohibiting the export and import of goods intended for torture and execution (annex ii) and the authorization regime for goods liable to be misappropriated for the purpose of torture (annex iii), to extend these restrictions to all goods liable to be used for capital punishment and torture. in particular, the provision of brokering services and technical assistance for any of the listed goods should be prohibited where the broker or the provider of technical assistance knows that the goods concerned are or may be intended for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, where controls are carried out to prevent such use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. export controls, which are applicable throughout the union, are instruments of external trade policy which contribute to the achievement of a wider set of strategic objectives. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 'against torture' is a prime means of strengthening the protection of human rights by subjecting to controls the assets and activities used, or which could be used, to inflict capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it thus contributes to the european union's long-standing policy of abolishing the death penalty worldwide and combating torture. by combining prohibitions and authorisation requirements for trade in the goods listed in its annexes, it contributes to the achievement of these objectives. it establishes a regime prohibiting trade in goods specially intended for torture and execution and related technical assistance (annex ii) and an authorisation regime for 'multi-purpose' goods which could be diverted for use in torture and executions by lethal chemical injection.
in writing. ‒ i was responsible for the socialist group's dossier on the automatic exchange of information on taxation. the aim is to ensure an automatic exchange of information on advance tax rulings. the report calls for the scope and conditions of the automatic and compulsory exchange of information to be extended, but it also states that all advance tax rulings, even before the directive enters into force, must be disclosed, and that in the event of failure or refusal to exchange information, sanctions are introduced. i also called for the introduction of a harmonised tax identification at european level, i.e. to ensure that every company has a european tax number so that it can be found more easily. i hope we will be able to convince the states of the importance of tackling tax evasion by multinationals. in this system, apart from a few countries and the multinationals themselves, no one wins and the member states lose considerable public resources, and the redistribution of wealth cannot therefore take place. i very much hope that the commission, which is investigating multinationals, will be able to continue its investigations into practices which should no longer exist.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as part of the response to the luxleaks schandal and my determination not to tolerate tax fraud and illegal tax avoidance. i am an advocate for a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and companies. i am happy to see a swift implementation of the information exchange. another important point is that the commission will develop a secure central directory so that sensitive data can be protected. the commission should publish to the public a summary of the main tax rulings agreed in the previous year, based on information contained in the secure central directory but in compliance with the confidentiality provisions.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the luxleaks scandal, this report - which i of course supported - was an opportunity for the european parliament to express its deep determination not to tolerate tax fraud and evasion and to advocate a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and businesses. the challenge posed by cross-border tax avoidance and harmful tax competition has taken on new dimensions and has become a major concern within the union and at global level. this was already underlined by the european parliament in its resolution of 21 may 2013. it is now urgent to continue efforts and increase transparency. to achieve this, it is necessary to strengthen the tools and mechanisms created by council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, which is the subject of the adopted report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and i commend my colleague, mr hugues bayet, for his sharp analysis. the ball is now clearly in the court of the member states, whose last proposals on 6 october were not ambitious. and this, when we know from the european commission's decision that certain tax agreements are not only immoral but also illegal. this is illegal state aid which leads to unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ on 29 april, the european parliament postponed its decision to grant the director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge for the financial year 2013 and called for action to correct the errors identified. in particular, the european parliament had noted that artemis had not complied with the 2014 recommendations of the discharge authority and had not adopted a clear policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. on the basis of the report provided by the director of artemis on 25 june 2015, the committee on budgetary control decided that improvements had been made, for example, in ex-post audits and audit strategies, or in the management of assurances provided by the national funding authorities. i therefore voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ after analysing the accounts, i note that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations after the budgetary correction at the end of the year was 69%. according to the joint undertaking, part of the explanation is the delays in the issuance of payment certificates by the national funding authorities. i would also like to recall the court of auditors' report which states that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013. the same applies to its operating results and cash flows for the year ended on that date. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the second czarnecki report and to give the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge text. the agreement was the result of a compromise reached by consensus between the political groups and was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ on 29 april, the european parliament postponed its decision to grant the director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge for the financial year 2013 and called for action to correct the errors identified, in particular in the area of subsidies and public procurement. the rapporteur stresses that the institute has significantly improved its procurement procedures since 2013 and that no errors were found in 2014. it noted that the eit had taken steps to reduce the high turnover of staff and that the commission's internal audit service had noted a number of improvements in the management of grants. i therefore supported the discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ while it is true that the court of auditors stated for the second year in a row in its report that it had not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of grant operations, it should be noted that the institute of innovation and technology (eit) has introduced additional ex post verifications of grant operations. in addition, we have also received information from the eit which tends to show that procurement procedures have improved since 2013. it also appears that the eit has taken a more proactive approach to the follow-up of the court's error detection. finally, it is clear that the eit's budget implementation planning and monitoring procedures are better. for all these reasons, i decided to vote in favour of the second czarnecki report, thus giving the director of the eit discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. i would like to make it clear that i support the comments made on internal audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge text. the agreement was the result of a compromise reached by consensus between the political groups and was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ on 29 april, the european parliament postponed its decision to grant the director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge for the financial year 2013 and called on him to take action to correct the errors identified. on the basis of the report provided to the committee on budgetary control on 25 june 2015, improvements were noted, in particular in the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the monitoring and communication of research results.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ today, i have decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report giving the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. i shall vote for this for three reasons. first, the court of auditors found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 presented the financial situation of the joint undertaking correctly as at 31 december 2013. the same applies to its operating results and cash flows for the year ended on that date. secondly, as regards the court of auditors' remark on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts, the joint undertaking stated that it would take steps to obtain sufficient assurances as to the audits carried out by the said national authorities. finally, the company made progress on the implementation of an action plan to correct the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge text. the agreement was the result of a compromise reached by consensus between the political groups and was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ following the parliament's decision of 29 april 2015, the committee on budgetary control decided to refuse discharge to the council on the grounds of a lack of financial transparency and a refusal to provide the information it requested. discharge was refused for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. the rapporteur recalls that he has asked the council to provide him with reports on the progress of construction projects and a detailed breakdown of expenditure incurred so far. information was also requested on the administrative modernisation in progress. the rapporteur has not received the information requested and the council must submit to budgetary control like any other institution, so i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors. this means that the committee will vote in favour of the draft report, which refuses to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ like a large majority of my colleagues, i have decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report and therefore to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. i voted in favour of refusing to grant this discharge because i believe that it is the duty of the council to be as transparent as possible about the funds entrusted to it. i also note that the council has not provided any explanation for the progression of under-utilisation and postponement of commitments in its 2013 budget. finally, i can only deplore the systematic difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures. indeed, i should remind you that parliament refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. in view of all this, i could not vote in favour of granting the secretary-general of the council discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge text. the agreement was the result of a compromise reached by consensus between the political groups and was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which stresses the need to deploy additional resources to help the countries most affected, particularly sierra leone, liberia and guinea. although the outbreak appears to be coming to an end, the events of recent months should serve as a reminder to the eu and its member states of the need to help develop social and medical services in these countries, which cannot cope with an ebola outbreak on their own.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is imperative to improve international governance in the management of health crises, especially as the likelihood of a food crisis arising from this epidemic (which has had devastating effects on smallholder farmers) is increasing. the crisis has served as a reminder to eu leaders of the need for them to stick to their goal of allocating at least 20% of public aid to the development of basic social services, with priority given to health care. it also shed light on the structural problems still present in a number of countries. one of the things i think is important is access to medicines because right now two billion people in the world don't have access to vaccines or the treatments they need to stay alive and healthy. i believe that access to medicines and research and development in this field must be geared primarily to the needs of patients, whether they live in our country or in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the worst ebola outbreak ever recorded. the scale and complexity of the current outbreak has posed a real challenge to these three states, which have structural health and education gaps. however, the epidemic has also been a real test for the international community. the report therefore considers, inter alia, that the eu's long-term response beyond emergency aid will first have to be in the form of development aid, which will have to include investments in health to promote resilience, in particular in the organisation and management of health systems. the text also calls for the establishment of a permanent european rapid reaction team comprising experts, laboratory support teams, epidemiologists and a logistical infrastructure, including mobile laboratories, which can be deployed as soon as possible. i have of course supported all these measures.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the worst ebola outbreak ever known to mankind. the permeability of borders has facilitated the spread of the virus from one country to another. the three countries in question are among the lowest in the undp human development index. their average life expectancy is 60 years or less, they rarely have more than three years of schooling and about 80% of their citizens live in extreme poverty. the resolution was intended to recall that the current ebola crisis is both a sign of the structural weaknesses that persist in many countries and a reminder to eu officials to persevere in their commitment to devote at least 20% of public aid to the development of basic social sectors, with health as a priority.
in writing. ‒ following the recent revelations about volkswagen's cheating, it is imperative that european leaders seize this opportunity to strengthen controls in the automotive sector. it is imperative to strengthen the legislative framework and address gaps, in particular with regard to testing methods, in order to protect public health and consumers. the european environment agency estimated that as many as 430,000 premature deaths related to poor air quality occurred in 2011 alone. the impact of diesel vehicles on the achievement of the union's greenhouse gas emission targets, together with the importance of the automotive sector in general, demonstrates the need for action. that is why i support the motion for a resolution by parliament, which calls on the commission and the member states to work against the circumvention of emission requirements and to ensure that consumer rights are respected.
in writing. in the aftermath of the volkswagen scandal, it has become clear that the methods we currently use to measure car emissions are not accurate enough. that is why i voted for this resolution, because it calls, among other things, for the introduction of real driving emissions testing as soon as possible. this should give consumers a better idea of the real consumption and emissions of their cars.
in writing. ‒ every day new revelations emerge about the scandal of cheating on car emissions tests. i have supported this resolution because i condemn this organized fraud which has robbed millions of people and because i believe it is essential that a thorough investigation be carried out and that appropriate sanctions be imposed. we know the damage caused by air pollution. we have just set new limits for some key pollutants and next month we have the big climate conference. excess emissions of pollutants have many adverse effects on human health and are a cause of premature death. they also produce environmental damage. the vw scandal also has a significant impact on the reputation and competitiveness of the automotive sector. the sector is one of the main drivers of growth and innovation and contributes to employment in a significant number of member states. for these reasons, i believe that the whole european emission control system must be strengthened without further delay, that the commission must be involved in the investigations currently being carried out in several member states and that a monitoring authority should be set up at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the opening of a committee of inquiry, supporting amendment no 17 to the joint motion for a resolution on emission measures in the automotive sector, and regret that this proposal was not adopted. i think it is necessary to shed light on the fraud of the volkswagen company, which manipulated its diesel-powered vehicles to deceive the american emissions inspections, and on any involvement of european authorities, whatever they may be. this case not only tarnishes the image of the automobile industry, but is also a sad symbol of non-europe in industry. i would urge that strict rules be put in place to govern practices and that exemplary penalties be imposed so that confidence can be restored. finally, the employment of workers in the sector, who deplore these malicious acts as much as i do, must be protected.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i have also formally asked the european authorities to impose sanctions and to urge the member states and regions to bring a complaint against the german company. to bring an action for damages would be only fair; the tax incentives granted by the public authorities to private individuals for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles are based on a lie by volkswagen. on the other hand, asking companies to control their behavior is like asking drivers to fine themselves!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr vice-president, i have seen the commission in 2014 and especially in 2015 act with speed, urgency and ambition, particularly in the face of the challenge of the influx of refugees into europe. so, of course, some may say that it is never enough, but you were quick to react and, in any case, did not hesitate to break down doors that were closed. i would really like to see you do the same on the issues that concern europeans. because i have heard your catalogue of proposals to come, the density of which, it seems to me, is equal only to the density of the presence of members in this chamber. i would like to start with the question of social dumping. you ran the 2014 campaign. you have felt, as have all of us here, how absolutely crucial this subject is to europeans. the commission was installed at the end of 2014 - well, let's say in the autumn of 2014 - so it's a year later. so far, nothing on that. actually, it's not true that there's nothing. because in the meantime the country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester continue to move towards greater flexibility in the labour market and a greater weakening of collective bargaining, in other words, towards increasing social dumping between member states. so not only do you not arrest him, but we're still waiting for the first offer to go back on track. tax competition: a year ago, we had luxleaks. since then, a small measure has been introduced: the automatic exchange of information on tax decisions, a measure weakened by the council - which is conspicuous by its absence here - and so everything else is to come. so we must take you at your word that yes yes, mañana! tomorrow will be the solution. but in the meantime, i feel neither urgency nor ambition. i would add that on social, fiscal and environmental dumping, what you want to do with ttip and what you want to do with the programme for better regulation is quite the opposite of what should be done. on the euro area, as you know, there is a deadlock in the council. but what are you waiting for to put on the table proposals which are disturbing and to make the states and this parliament responsible? whether it is the deposit guarantee fund, automatic stabilisers, the euro area budget and so on, you have the right of initiative. but take him! finally, i would like to conclude on the volkswagen case. i was really expecting you to do that. it is a scandal in public health, in the environment, in law enforcement, in market distortion, in short, just the subjects for which the commission is competent, and what does commissioner bieńkowska say? "oh, look, let the member states do their job, we'll watch, but don't count on us to take the initiative". do you actually know what's going on? the car industry is a taboo, and we know that it is in germany that it is most powerfully established, and therefore, we do not touch it. please, grace, sense of urgency and ambition! prove to us in a year that you've really taken the challenge to heart.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i have therefore, as you have just said, the responsibility of presenting our budgetary proposals for the so-called other institutions. among these other institutions, i would first start with those which, in our view, have presented the least problems between us in the committee on budgets and which, according to my information, will present the least problems with the other branch of the budgetary authority. i am referring to the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service, for which we have taken over the proposals originally put forward by the commission, because we have found them, after examination, to be fully justified. there are, however, some minor exceptions: one - very limited - in favour of the committee of the regions of a few tens of thousands of euros and the other, of a larger scale, in favour of the court of justice of the european union, whose ability to give judgment within a reasonable time would be, in our view, jeopardised by the blind application of cuts in support and translation staff. i now turn to the european parliament's budget itself. and although i know that a number of colleagues will find it difficult to believe me on this point, i consider that this is a budget of rigour and reform that we have the honour of putting before parliament. since the beginning of its work, the committee on budgets has accepted, on my proposal, to provide an exceptional envelope of eur 15 000. the sole purpose of this envelope is to finance urgent and necessary measures in the field of security: building security first, since it is true that access to buildings, mainly in brussels, has shown its deficiency; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's information technology policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure. this limited increase is all the more significant because we have had to take account of the very recent creation of a new political group, which has led to requests for additional temporary posts and a significant increase in expenditure, which has been offset by other factors. to those who might be tempted to believe - and i know there are some - that this increase is still too high in the present context of budgetary restrictions, i would like to remind you of two realities: the first is that before presenting the european parliament's budget to the plenary, the committee on budgets must reach an agreement with the bureau of the european parliament, a body in which budgetary concerns are not necessarily a priority. the second reality is that despite this constraint, the committee on budgets has managed to reduce the requests initially approved by the bureau by more than eur 18 million. i should like to add, and this is not without significance, that at the instigation of the committee on budgets - and this is a point on which your rapporteur has worked very hard - the bureau agreed last night to a major reform of the personal assistants of members, which was known in budgetary terms as secretarial allowance - which is inadequately worded and which we propose to amend. under the old system, a member of parliament could spend all of this allowance on paying local assistants. some, in fact, had hired a large number of assistants and had not hired any accredited assistants. i thought - and i was not the only one - that in order to be able to carry out his job as legislator and monitor the executive, a member of parliament must have at least one, and preferably more, accredited assistants, that is to say, assistants who are working where parliament actually works. i thought i had six minutes. or is it only four minutes? (...) the bureau, in its decision yesterday, takes this concern into account to a large extent by allocating at least 25% of the sum made available to each member to the remuneration of accredited assistants. this means that the 25% will be frozen and not available if no accredited assistant is engaged. other provisions, which i do not have time to go into here, were approved; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. for example, amendments to article 34 propose the application of reference thresholds to the salaries and fees of local assistants in order to limit the risk of remuneration that would be excessively different from the average of remuneration in the member state concerned. in addition, in order to better manage operating costs, proposals for amendments are under discussion in respect of parliamentary questions. this may seem marginal, but it is not marginal when we consider that since the beginning of the parliamentary term our colleagues have already asked more than 16 000 written questions and that each written question costs parliament and the commission a total of 780 euros. i am aware that certain provisions of this budget are the subject of considerable controversy. i am also aware that the negotiations which will shortly be opened with the council will be very close, particularly on the establishment plan. but i will defend with conviction and determination, together with the entire delegation of the european parliament, the choices you will make tomorrow when voting on the budgets of the other institutions.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, allow me first of all, because i did not have time to do so in my first speech, to thank all those who helped us, who helped me to draw up this report and to present the budget for the other institutions: my colleague josé fernandes, my colleagues, the members of my group and the secretariat of the committee on budgets, which has done a remarkable job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i am optimistic about the vote tomorrow. however, if there is no opposition from this side, we can devote all our energy to what is essential, namely what our colleague josé fernandes has just mentioned: the refugee crisis, of course, which we must deal with with both lucidity and humanism, but also their economic redeployment and the revival of growth. the less growth we have, the less creative our businesses will be, the more our small and medium-sized businesses will be hampered, the less we will have the means to allocate them to some of our priorities, including the refugee crisis. less growth means that the burdens will be heavier tomorrow. mr president-in-office of the council, do not think that some of the priorities we have set in this budget are merely formal priorities: we will defend them with all our energy.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a reply. madam high representative, let me begin by thanking you warmly for your excellent commitment and your drive on this matter. since we met in september, the situation has only become more hopeless. we deplore violence on all sides but understand very well where the latest outbursts are coming from. the religious agreements on the temple mount must be respected again. where is the european union? we know you're actively talking to the leaders, that points of stability have been found. you sat with the members of the quartet and i am pleased to see that there is agreement between the european union and the other countries. but alde believes it is time for you to take more initiative in both the usual bilateral contacts. that is why we, together with a number of colleagues and also our group leader, have written to you, calling on you to develop a genuine peace initiative. what we as liberals would like to see is that you encourage the members of the quartet to join in this european peace initiative. we want you to bring the parties together and go beyond the usual commuter diplomacy where no one feels obliged to make real concessions. if president abbas says the oslo accords are dead, then he will breathe new life into them and raise them to a higher level. palestinian and israeli citizens want nothing more than a prospect of peace, with opportunities for their children. the european parliament, madam high representative, is with you. we have shown that with the resolution. use your influence, use the credit you have built up in the short term, to decorate a mogherini deal after the oslo accords. you have our support.
mr president, mrs mogherini, thank you for your words and for your commitment to this issue. so the feeling of despair that prevails today cannot be a fatality, as you said. in the last few days you have increased your efforts in the various meetings you have had, but today you also said that we must do more in practice. we must do more to support the revival of the palestinian political process, but we must also do more to stop the illegal israeli settlements immediately. so these are the two minimum conditions for the resumption of dialogue. these are also two conditions in which the european union has the power to do more. we have already mentioned the guidelines for products from the colonies. i think that's something we should activate as soon as possible to move forward with this file.
south sudan is kind of the youngest state in the world, but in 2011 it didn't really become a state. it became a violent kleptocracy, trapped in a tangle of regional interests and alliances of and between neighboring states and all sorts of rebel groups. the people have seen nothing but horror and impunity. there's a peace agreement now. the parties to the conflict have made commitments to participate in a transition process. forgive my scepticism, but without a strong international commitment, this time too, it will remain a paper peace. are we prepared, with our partners in the region, to make such a commitment to ensure that arms trafficking and the plundering of natural resources are stopped, that stolen goods are frozen and returned, and that those who have committed crimes in excess are held accountable and punished? the union cannot but play an active role. it's gotta be more than business as usual. there is a need for strong mediation, targeted development cooperation and, if necessary, financial and other sanctions against the main actors. the eu does not always have to be nice. kind is a word i have not encountered in connection with south sudan.
for the enf group the old electoral act of 1976 is still sufficient to hold democratic elections in an orderly manner and to ensure that they are conducted properly in the member states. the european parliament now wants to pass a new electoral law that should lead the european electorate to the polls in greater numbers, but above all it wants to force the electorate into this struggle for eu unity and to exclude the member states more and more. the european electoral law now under preparation stipulates that the elected representatives will no longer be representatives of their respective member states but will be so-called representatives of all the citizens of the union. the eu will even intervene in the way political parties draw up their electoral lists. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. we believe that the member states must be and remain autonomous in order to determine the electoral conditions and procedures for their citizens. (the speaker answers a question on the 'blue card' question)
"blue card" is the answer. madam, i was not elected here because of what's in those treaties. you see all these flags of my colleagues here and i hope that more and more of these flags will come. we are here to represent the voters who vote for us, and we have the right to do so. it is also right to pretend to represent the whole of europe, but it is not. we represent our electorate, our people and then europe.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to take you back 15 months, commissioner, like mrs boylan, to the time when the commission president-elect, mr juncker, here solemnly promised to democratize the decisionmaking process on gmos. the political guidelines were subsequently adopted. i 'll read them to you for a moment . "it is simply not right that under the current rules the commission is legally forced to authorise new organisms for import and processing even though a clear majority of member states are against it". commissioner, the proposal before you does not live up to that promise. your proposal is simply a renationalisation of policy. that is not democratizing the decision-making process. moreover, your proposal is simply not applicable. i 'll tell you what . a ship with 55,000 tonnes of soybeans is entering the port of antwerp. a truck is being loaded. france has opted for an opt-out. how are you going to stop that truck from coming into france from antwerp? i've tried to understand your reasoning. i've invoked the transparency act, i've searched all the documents your services have used, and i've checked the meetings they've all had to understand what your reasoning was. twelve options were on the table. i got this paper. but in these documents, everything is simply blacked out. you don't even see what the proposals are. this is ridiculous. this is not a publicity stunt. i ask you to withdraw your proposal. i would ask you to reopen the debate and to examine with the european parliament what those 12 options were and what would be a good solution, in order to implement the proposals made by mr juncker to democratize decision-making.
mr president, what now? because that is the question, and josé bové is right. i am one of the 40 members who have signed amendment no 2, which asks you, commissioner, to come back, to come back with a strong proposal, this time on the question of gmo imports. that's what's expected of you. and as rapporteur on the legislation on the possibility of refusing to grow gmos, which we negotiated with you just ten months ago, i feel, we feel we have been misled. legislation on imports here in the same way as we have done on culture is nonsense. i'm not going to go back on everything that was said. in every way, it's nonsense. commissioner, the case of the six syngenta maize varieties authorised without the approval of efsa highlights the bankruptcy - there is no other term - of the current authorisation process. the exercise is difficult, we all know, but it is urgent now to keep the repeated promise of the juncker candidate and to review from a to z a process which, in the end, no longer satisfies anyone.
i think many of us would agree that we do need clear rules on gmos, because of course the first concern is public health. but the proposal that is now on the table, unfortunately, we cannot support. this is a very important point, and i would like to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept this amendment. this will make it impossible to import and export food and, of course, feed containing gmo ingredients. moreover, and this is my second point, it is not at all clear how this proposal will work in practice. for example, what arguments can the member states put forward in favour of this opt-out? the rules must not be contrary to the rules of the european internal market or those of the world trade organisation and, moreover, they must also be in line with the findings of the european food agency. it is therefore not at all clear what arguments they can then bring forward. the absence of an impact assessment is also contrary to the european commission's intention to improve regulation. so we would like to see a new proposal and i assume you intend to provide that too.
we have debated here today with not many members. i would like to say that the general line is clear. we do not think it is a good idea at all that the regulations should be nationalised again, because that would simply not be feasible. if we were to reintroduce border controls to control the transport of animal feed, i think that would be completely against the internal market. i would also ask you, commissioner, to come up with a balanced proposal. the alde colleagues have already called on you to do so. it is absolutely essential that we also take into account the viability of our livestock. the sector is already very badly affected. so i ask you: i would like to ask the commissioner to make a balanced proposal which is feasible and which takes account of the single market, so that we do not have 28 different regulations.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. this is a difficult dossier, which has been on our tables for a long time. i was there from 2008 to 2011, when the case went to the rocks in the mediation process. i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur for their cooperation, but as a green group we are not entirely happy with what is on the table. we have tabled 25 amendments together with the s&ds, the gue and the members of the five star movement, which mainly deal with two themes. the first theme is nanotechnology applications in food. we believe that these kinds of food applications should be labelled as novel foods. we want rigorous testing before this kind of food is put on the market. we need a definition of engineered nanomaterials and good test methods. the second theme concerns meat from cloned animals. in september we discussed the commission's proposals on this subject. there's a legal vacuum now. we would like the regulation on novel foods to fill that legal void in such a way that we can allow consumers to make an informed choice about the purchases they make and prevent them from being able to buy meat from cloned animals and their descendants. that is why we have tabled these amendments. i ask the members on the right of this house to support the 25 amendments from the four groups.
of course, we all want to live longer. of course, we all want cleaner air and a cleaner environment. but this proposal, which includes methane, is not the right instrument for that. as mr huitema has pointed out: this is already covered in the climate package and there is no way to reduce methane emissions from livestock farming except by reducing the livestock or by putting all the cows back in the stable. that's not the way to go as a farmer's daughter. we must be careful not to overstep the mark. please let us live and let us do business.
in writing. our vote on the commission's proposal to tighten national emission ceilings for pollutants will do a great deal to clean up the air over europe. that's what it takes. air pollution is responsible for at least 400 000 premature deaths in the union from respiratory infections, heart attacks and cancers. city dwellers are particularly affected. yet, we can hardly be completely satisfied with this result. the more stringent objectives proposed by the social democrats did not make it through the final vote. if our proposals, which have a slim majority in the committee on the environment, had been adopted in the plenary, we could have prevented more than 42 000 extra premature deaths in europe every year. fortunately, the conservatives failed to vote to remove the ammonia and methane emission limits. these pollutants emitted by intensive livestock farming cause a lot of fine dust and ozone pollution. to tackle this pollution, the agricultural sector must also make a contribution. we also welcome the binding 2025 emission ceilings, the additional opportunities for local governments to tackle air pollution, greater citizen participation and easier access to justice if governments do not take sufficient action.
our group would prefer that there should be no european electoral legislation. we would therefore prefer to postpone it to 2063, and that is why i am against mrs hübner's proposal, which we consider to be a little too restrictive.
the rapporteur. mr president, amendment no 90 follows on from a request we made in our vote in july, which called on the bureau to draw up new rules to achieve a better balance between accredited parliamentary assistants and local assistants. the text we were asking you to vote on deplores the fact that the bureau has not yet taken a decision on this point; but that is not true, since the bureau made a decision last monday. i therefore propose that you delete the last part of the original text which has been submitted to you and that instead of 'communicate to the bureau a proposal to that effect' you delete the text and replace it by 'take note of the agreement reached within the bureau in that it responds in essence to the request made by the european parliament and welcomes the decision to implement this agreement immediately'.
mr president, i do not want to talk about the rules of procedure, but with more than two hours of voting, i would like to congratulate you on the way you conducted the vote. thank you, mr president!
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which provides, inter alia, for an additional €1.16 billion for migration management measures than the european commission originally proposed, in order to meet the needs of the member states which are handling the largest influxes of refugees and migrants, as well as those of non-eu countries which are hosting even more. on employment, parliament added €473 million for contracts for new programmes to help unemployed young people find work. farmers affected by the russian embargo on eu food imports and by low milk prices will also receive an additional €500 million. the european parliament also voted to allocate €1.3 billion to the european research programme horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (infrastructure) to repay funds borrowed from these to launch the juncker investment plan. i voted against any increase in fees and expenses for the activities of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft eu budget for 2016, in full accordance with my group's political line, with the exception of the line on bullfighting where i rejected the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 draft budget proposed by parliament because, unlike the cuts made by the council, it provides for valuable resources to tackle the union's main challenges. economic recovery and job creation, of course - although this is primarily a matter of political choice and will - but also research and development, the migration crisis for which 800 million euros are planned, the framework for banking supervision and the development of cross-border infrastructure.
in writing. i voted for this report because it addresses some of the important problems we are facing as the eu today. the first is certainly the current migration crisis, for which more resources must be made available. the second is to support the competitiveness of our companies. it is important that we provide adequate funding for start-ups and companies that are growing. special attention should be paid to smes, as we are doing now by strengthening cosme.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament expresses its wish to increase the eu budget by more than eur 4 billion in 2016. the nva delegation does not share this view. it is not just the member states that must cut back, but the eu too. the n-va supports the additional expenditure in response to the migration crisis or to compensate for the efsi savings on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, but considers that it should be initially placed within existing budgets before any increase in the budget can be envisaged. there are still very significant efficiency gains to be made within the current budget, for example in budget lines with a weak implementation rate or within budgets that do not provide eu added value. the nva delegation therefore voted against the joint resolution and instead supports the recommendations made in the alternative ecr resolution.
in writing. we have decided to be ambitious by providing additional funds (€4.1 billion more than the council's commitment position and €4.3 billion more than the council's payment/ordering position) in the 2016 eu budget to address the various crises facing europe. it is about meeting the needs arising from the unprecedented influx of refugees into and out of the eu, funding support for job creation for young people, improving the eu's competitiveness, etc. we therefore propose a budget of eur 157.4 billion for commitments and eur 146.4 billion for payments. the last word is not said. a conciliation procedure with the council is now under way and should lead to an agreement, which will be endorsed by the ecofin council on 23 november. we have also asked for all the flexibility instruments to be available to deal with unforeseen circumstances and therefore to have recourse to the contingency reserve if necessary.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which provides, inter alia, for an additional eur 1.16 billion for migration management measures compared to what the european commission had originally proposed, in order to meet the needs of the member states which are dealing with the largest influxes of refugees and migrants, as well as those of the non-eu countries which are hosting even more. on employment, parliament added €473 million for contracts for new programmes to help unemployed young people find work. farmers affected by the russian embargo on eu food imports and by low milk prices will also receive an additional €500 million. the european parliament also voted to allocate €1.3 billion to the european research programme horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (infrastructure) to repay funds borrowed from these to launch the juncker investment plan. i voted against any increase in fees and expenses for the activities of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 eu budget, in full accordance with my group's political line, with the exception of the line on bullfighting, where i rejected the amendment.
in writing. this is a very important file. the aim is to ensure that the european court of justice can fully carry out its tasks and that it has the necessary judges. that is why we are talking about a substantial increase. i regret, however, the increase of 28 judges, whereas the ecj itself had asked for only 12 additional judges. this number is highly arbitrary and not based on a correct workload measurement as it should be.
in writing. ‒ at present, the court of justice of the european union is composed of 28 judges, one from each member state. however, the increase in the number of cases to be dealt with has resulted in an overload of work for the court and an inability to respond to cases within a reasonable time. an increase of 28 judges is therefore proposed for better functioning. i voted in favour of this doubling of the number of judges in 3 phases (12 judges in 2015, transfer of the 7 judges of the civil service tribunal in 2016, 9 additional judges in 2019) because following the quadrilogue (parliament, council, commission and court of justice) our group won on two essential elements in my opinion, namely: an analysis of the real needs of the court prior to the implementation of phases 2 and 3 of the reform as well as respect for gender parity in the appointment of new judges. it is, however, clear that this increase in the number of judges must be followed by an increase in the court's staff, in particular in the translation services, which are currently understaffed. these measures are necessary for the proper functioning of the judicial activities of the court.
in writing. between the euro crisis and the refugee crisis, this issue may seem secondary. it is actually symbolic. europe is not looking its best. the court of justice had proposed to create 12 new posts of judges. faced with the difficulty of reaching agreement between the member states, it decided to increase the number of additional judges to 28, even though judicial delays had meanwhile decreased and the court concerned did not require these judges. this major change was made without external consultation, without consultation of national parliaments, without impact assessment. the member states, who are always trying to reduce the european budget, have turned a blind eye to this unnecessary expenditure. this is the triumph of "particularist" technocracy over democracy. parliament should have refused this manifestly excessive expenditure. all over europe, public services, particularly the judiciary, are having to reduce their staff. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. i regret the vote on this reform which not only abolishes the civil service tribunal but also plays into the hands of the eurosceptics.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) launched a legislative initiative in 2011 to amend its statute to allow the appointment of 12 additional judges to the tribunal. it relied on the need to reduce both the number of cases per judge and the duration of those cases before the court of first instance. in 2013, the court of justice reduced this request to 9 judges, a figure that was accepted by the council of the european union, the european commission and the european parliament. however, while during the previous parliamentary term, at the first reading by parliament, the number of 12 additional judges had been approved, the council did not appoint any of these 12 judges, as the member states had not reached agreement on the choice of judges. in october 2014, the court of justice therefore proposed to double the number of judges of the general court in three stages and to abolish the civil service tribunal. the council immediately accepted these new proposals, which are the subject of this report and were the subject of an overall compromise between the various political groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of returning to the previous proposal in the text and therefore disagree with the one presented today. it is a question of consistency between the two votes on his appointments. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the amendments in this text which advocate gender equality.
in writing. ‒ to address the backlog of judges, the european court of justice asked for 12 new judges to sit on its general court in 2011, a number it later reduced to nine. the council of justice ministers, however, failed to agree on which of the 28 eu member states should be allowed to provide an additional judge. the court of justice therefore decided to simply double the number of judges, despite the fact that the said backlog, mainly due to internal reorganisation, was largely eliminated to ± 10%. at a cost to the taxpayer of over 20 million euros a year, this is the quintessential european example of genuine waffle iron policy, and truly vindictive in times of rigid austerity. moreover, the planned abolition of the seven-judge civil service tribunal will only partially offset the costs. without a serious impact assessment, this proposal was quietly voted by the european parliament. the nva delegation therefore voted resolutely against.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice had asked for 12 additional judges because of its heavy workload. as the member states were unable to reach an agreement, the council decided to increase the number of judges by one per member state, i.e. 28. the backlog had already been reduced and the workload did not require 28 additional judges. i therefore voted for an increase of only 12 instead of 28 additional judges to reduce the workload but not to waste resources and staff. the increase to 56 judges is not a good thing for the european project and will only play into the hands of eurosceptics.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of the european parliament (ep) position at first reading in plenary on 13 january 2015, informal negotiations have started with the latvian presidency with a view to reaching an early agreement at second reading. after two rounds of trilogue, the ep and the council reached an agreement on this dossier in march 2015. the text of the agreement was submitted to the ep's fisheries committee for a vote of approval in may 2015 and was approved by a very large majority. the european parliament's plenary session today definitively approved the council's position at first reading without any amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provisions on fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion. we accept that derogations from the ban on trawl fishing in the black sea should be managed by the member states with the commission's oversight, but that they should not be a precedent in any future legal act.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european commission's proposal to give member states the possibility of banning the use of imported gmos for human or animal feed. this would lead to a fragmentation of the internal market, and the absence of an impact assessment remains extremely worrying as regards the consequences of an a la carte authorisation/ban for our whole agriculture and food.
in writing. i fully support the report as presented in plenary. it rejects the commission's proposal to nationalize imports. that would be a serious infringement of the free movement of goods within the european union. it is also a measure which has no scientific basis whatsoever, but is purely a political response to the concerns about gmos in some member states. there is no difference at all (even at the cellular level) between a piece of meat from a cow that has been fed genetically modified food and a cow that has not been fed genetically modified food.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted against the european commission's proposal to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the nva considers the new commission proposal problematic and incompatible with the better regulation agenda. it is unclear how the proposal can be implemented, monitored and enforced in practice. the proposal also threatens to fragment the european single market and may have serious consequences for international trade. the lack of an impact assessment is also problematic. the possible financial implications for the agricultural sector are not clear, but in any case the agricultural sector is likely to face considerable additional costs. for protein-rich animal feed (such as soya), europe is particularly dependent on imports from third countries where gm crops are widely grown. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in the food chain.
in writing. i welcome the rejection by the european parliament of the commission's proposal which provided for the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed after they have been authorised. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission proposal would have risked fragmentation between member states and thus undermined the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament sent a clear message to the commission on wednesday by opposing its proposal on gmos. the commission's text sought to allow any member state to restrict or prohibit the sale and use of food or feed containing eu-approved gmos on its territory. the idea may be interesting, but this text goes against the rules of free trade so dear to europe. this would be tantamount to member states taking back control of imported products at their frontiers, a practice contrary to the treaties. as rapporteur on the legislation on national bans on the cultivation of gmos negotiated earlier this year, i believe that it is nonsense to legislate the same on imports and on the cultivation of gmos. especially when you consider that europe is dependent on imported gm soybeans to feed its livestock, which cover more than 60% of european food needs. i welcome the decision by a large majority in parliament to ask the commission to come forward with another proposal which is more coherent, courageous and responsive to the needs of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal (along with a large majority of meps: 577 votes against, 75 in favour and 38 abstentions) which is based on legislation in force since april and which would have given member states the choice of refusing to grow 8 gm seeds that have been approved by the eu or are in the process of being approved. parliament therefore opposed any nationalisation of decisions on gmos and considered the commission's proposal inapplicable in a single market without internal frontiers. for example, in the 'simple' case of belgium, flanders has traditionally tolerated gmos, unlike wallonia and brussels. the commission proposal makes it possible for a member state to decide on the use of gmos in part of its territory; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal border controls in belgium are not disrupted. in fact, at present 19 member states have indicated their intention to ban genetically modified crops in part or in all of their territory. i personally regret that the commission does not dare to reject gmos on european territory, when a large majority of member states and citizens are against the exploitation of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected the commission's proposal to give member states the possibility to ban the use of gmos on their territory, whether they have the option to accept it or not. this proposal, made without an impact assessment, goes against the single market, favours multinationals, but above all reflects the cowardice of the commission, which does not dare to refuse gmos on european territory when a large majority of member states and citizens are against the exploitation of genetically modified organisms. when will there be a simple majority to reject gmos, as 19 of the 28 member states and 60% of the population want?
in writing. ‒ whether one is for or against the authorisation of genetically modified organisms, i do not think that europe should have authorisation organised by member state. this would not only create unfair competition but would also require us to reintroduce controls at europe's internal borders to check whether or not certain foodstuffs or animal feeds contain gmos. i therefore voted against the european commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the revision of the authorisation procedure for novel foods because i believe that it does not present sufficient requirements in terms of the precautionary principle and food safety, given that the new regulation will cover, for example, nanomaterials or food derived from cloned animals.
in writing. this dossier contains a number of important elements. for example, it provides a centralised application procedure at eu level (and no longer at member state level) for so-called 'novel foods'. cloned food is now also being taken, whereas previously there was an unclear regulation on this subject which led to legal uncertainty. the processing of applications will also now be able to be handled in a shorter, more streamlined procedure.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation today gave the green light for the revision of legislation on novel foods. this review is important and urgent. the current legislation dates from 1997 and is no longer adapted to technological and scientific progress. a previous attempt to update the legislation failed in 2011. after almost 20 years of stagnation, it is really time for progress to benefit both our citizens and our businesses. the n-va strongly believes that the new legislation will encourage innovation. the approval procedure for new foodstuffs today takes an average of three years and is expensive. a uniform authorisation procedure that reduces administrative burdens should ensure that new foods can be brought to the market more quickly and at lower cost. this progress is important for flanders, where many companies (especially smes) are strong in the development of innovative foodstuffs. the new rules are of course without prejudice to consumer protection. the safety of the products remains paramount. the nva also welcomes the emphasis in the legislation on discouraging animal testing by applying the 3v principle (replacement, reduction, refinement).
in writing. after several years of deadlock, i am pleased that the european parliament has finally voted on the report on novel foods. it was essential that the 1997 eu legislation be updated to take account of the many new foods and changing dietary habits. i therefore welcome the fact that the authorization procedure for novel foods, now centralised at european level, is thus simplified in order to encourage innovation without compromising food safety. the introduction of traditional foods from third countries and considered safe on the european market should also be made easier. more transparency is also planned to reassure consumers. finally, animal testing in the food sector should also be reduced as duplication of testing will be avoided as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on novel foods has been through a lot of bumps and bruises before it reached the plenary. after the failure of the negotiations in 2008, there was an urgent need to legislate to adapt the legal framework to the realities of today's food market. that is why i voted for the nicholson report without any additional amendments which might have ruined the fragile compromise reached with the council in june 2015. the european union is based on a comprehensive and strict regulatory framework for food safety. it must continue to promote its local products, but at the same time it must make room for new food trends and alternative sources of protein: mushrooms, algae, or even grilled insects, even if these still represent a niche market for human consumption. this variety of products is an undeniable plus for the european consumer. the new european legislation provides a framework for these new foods and provides safeguards in terms of food ethics, which i welcome. i am thinking of the inclusion of food derived from cloned animals in the legislative field and the necessary limitation of animal testing.
in writing. ‒ in this report i supported several amendments calling for the following information to be given to consumers when food from cloned animals and their offspring is placed on the market and marketed in the union, including imports, until the entry into force of specific legislation on food from cloned animals and their offspring: 'food from cloned animals'.
in writing. - i voted against the report on novel foods. it is not that i have anything against new food, far from it, but i cannot understand why in this text it is proposed that parliament no longer has a say or any power over the acceptance of the next products. it is in this sense that my decision is motivated and is expressed in a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ after a long road, a delicate balance/compromise has been reached with the council to adapt the legal framework to the realities of the current food market. the european union must continue to promote local products, to safeguard food safety and to provide opportunities for new food products to appear on the market. this balance is my approval.
in writing. ‒ knowing that 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to pollution levels harmful to human health, i supported this resolution which favours strict and binding targets for the limitation of toxic emissions for 2025 and 2030. the proposals include the limitation of six toxic pollutants, the agricultural sector being also concerned.
in writing. i supported the agreement on this dossier. in view of the damage caused to the environment and to human health by the emission of pollutants, i believe it is important that this problem be tackled. we have taken an ambitious but realistic approach, including an exception for cows grazing outside.
in writing. ‒ air pollution remains a huge problem and requires a cross-border approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution. the impact of air pollution on vulnerable groups, especially children, requires our absolute priority. the updating and extension of the nec directive is an opportunity to address this challenge. the nva delegation shares the analysis of the rapporteur and the european commission that we need to show ambition, mainly by tightening up the standards per member state for six of the most polluting substances by 2030, by setting binding interim targets by 2025 and by tackling pollution at source. the rapid introduction of real driving emissions tests in the automotive sector is also fundamental in this respect. we don't have time to waste. in order to make rapid and real progress possible, our proposals must also be realistic, based on figures and technologically feasible. after all, clean air is not achieved by riding aerial bicycles or by building aerial castles. the nva is pleased that a majority of parliament today is choosing responsible policies which offer the best guarantees in the interests of our health, well-being and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european commission's proposals to set new emission ceilings for 6 key air pollutants, including nox, particulate matter and sulphur dioxide. i voted against an amendment to remove enteric methane from the list. i felt justified in not forcing the agricultural sector, which has already made considerable progress in this area and is going through a very difficult period, to respect objectives which, in the opinion of many experts, were neither realistic nor achievable. i have supported the vast majority of the other commission proposals because air pollution has enormous human and economic costs. in 2010, it caused more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union. air pollution also damages the environment and knows no boundaries. the total costs are in the range of eur 330-940 billion per year, of which eur 4 billion in the healthcare sector.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report on emissions of certain air pollutants, which aims to revise the 2003 directive. the union intends to tackle the problem of air pollution. the text provides for emission ceilings for six major air pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and methane. as regards enteric methane (produced by ruminants), i voted in favour of removing it from the scope of the text in order to avoid imposing an additional burden on farmers and to take account of the specificities and rules of the sector and the progress already made.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of ambitious legislation on air quality. not because the paris climate summit is on the horizon, but because air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths in the eu every year. more specifically, i supported binding targets for six gases which are particularly harmful to the environment and/or human health: ammonia, fine particulate matter, nox, so2, vocs and methane. for the latter gas, which is bad for the ozone layer, i took account of the difficulty for the agricultural sector to comply with the most ambitious standards. that is why i strongly and convincingly supported amendment no 33, which provides for the exclusion of enteric methane from the scope of this directive. this will allow the herds to continue to graze in peace in the meadows. the opposite would have been harmful to cattle farming, which is adapting to the new rules laid down by the cap: the application of the third pillar, the so-called 'greening' pillar. but it is essential to do more about the invisible killer of air pollution, which kills ten times as many people each year as road accidents.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on this report, which has led the european parliament to vote in favour of emission ceilings for pollutants which must be much stricter to combat air pollution. the report adopted reinforces the emission ceilings for certain pollutants that are hazardous to health for 2020-2030. air pollution causes some 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year. the member states have committed themselves to tackling this situation, but they are not keeping their commitments. it is therefore a good thing that parliament has chosen to strengthen the european commission's proposal by tightening up the standards for six pollutants. basically, the ceilings must continue to be lowered by 2030 for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia, methane, volatile organic compounds other than methane, fine particulate matter and ammonia. the european parliament has introduced binding interim targets to be met by 2025 and will have to negotiate with the member states to reach an agreement in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ europe must be at the forefront of the fight against climate change. we want a just transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy. today we spend the equivalent of a planet and a half a year of resources. the future of our planet is in danger. the text voted today goes in that direction and sets limits for the emission of pollutants into the air for the member states of europe. this is thousands of tonnes of fine particulate matter, ammonia, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur and so on. i would remind you that poor air quality is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost to health is estimated at between €300 and €900 billion each year. 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to pollution levels considered to be dangerous. a real change of course is needed! i have also made a very important point, namely that i voted in favour of excluding enteric methane. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ we must not forget that our own farmers produce food of the highest quality in a highly regulated environment. if we were to tighten the emission standards for methane and ammonia without scientific research into how this could be possible, we would force our agriculture to operate from outside the eu or go bankrupt. i voted for the survival of european agriculture and for cleaner air.
in writing. ‒ even if the european citizens' initiative were to function perfectly, it cannot be expected to solve the democratic deficit that is characteristic of this european union. i support the principle of the european citizens' initiative, not because of the so-called idea of european integration, but because it can be a means of drawing the attention of the european commission and the elected representatives of the european parliament to certain themes and major or minor social problems. the schöpflin report states that the success of the european citizens' initiative is being undermined by all kinds of practical obstacles. this involves placing the finger on the wound. our group therefore calls not only for the removal of these obstacles or for the user-friendliness of the initiative instrument, but also for an obligation on the commission to follow up a successful european citizens' initiative with an appropriate legislative proposal. we have therefore amended the report, but at the same time we support it.
in writing. ‒ the s&d group played a leading role in launching the european citizens' initiative, which allows european citizens to directly influence the democratic process. this initiative is a step forward for direct democracy, public participation and involvement in the european debate. three years after the entry into force of this new instrument, it seems appropriate to evaluate its implementation in order to identify any shortcomings. i supported the own-initiative report of the committee on constitutional affairs calling on the european commission and the member states to improve the eci in order to ensure its effectiveness and attractiveness for citizens.
in writing. the citizens' initiative is a good tool to involve citizens more in european policy-making. this resolution recognises this and proposes a number of adjustments to improve this instrument. this will make it easier to collect signatures, give the initiative more visibility and improve the provision of information to the organisers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that the european citizens' initiative (eci) is the first transnational participatory democracy instrument which gives citizens the opportunity to engage directly with the european institutions and to actively participate in the development of european policies. the resolution also stresses that a dedicated office for ecis could also raise public awareness of these initiatives. indeed, since 2012, only three of the 31 registered ecis have reached the final stage. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ this report strengthens the european citizens' initiative (eci) as an instrument for political participation by citizens. since the lisbon treaty, there has been a legal framework for the european citizens' initiative, but various reactions from citizens' movements point to its ineffectiveness. the aim of this report is therefore to improve the ebi mechanism to make it more user-friendly and to remove certain obstacles for organisers and initiators. we greens would like to see the european commission and the european parliament give more effect to successful citizens' initiatives. that is why we tabled three amendments to ensure that. firstly, there is no clear obligation for the commission to respond to a successful citizens' initiative with a legislative proposal. the first amendment therefore proposes that the commission should respond within 12 months. secondly, parliament must be able to come up with a legislative initiative report if the commission fails in the above proposal. thirdly, citizens' initiatives which challenge primary legislation of the european union must also be allowed, which has been difficult so far. unfortunately, all these amendments were rejected, hence our abstention in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) has its origins in the convention and was designed to give the european citizen the opportunity to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. the original idea was therefore that once in place, this instrument would make it possible to mobilise civil society more and to strengthen european citizenship, particularly at transnational level. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eic in the member states and to provide information on the implementation of the eic in the union. the commission report lists 51 initiatives (com (2015) 145). this report seeks to improve the functioning of the eic to make it more user-friendly and to remove some of the obstacles that have proved to be a source of difficulty for eic organisers. the commission should undertake a thorough review of the eic in 2016 and parliament's opinion on this instrument will have weight because it will reflect, first and foremost, the view of the grassroots, that of the citizens who have tried to use the eic.
in writing. ‒ the resolution i have approved supports the development of a macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, as this new model of multi-level governance, in which the regions are increasingly interested, offers considerable benefits. in this report, parliament takes stock of the benefits that the region could derive, in particular the protection of its marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems and blue growth, highlighting the immense potential of the region in terms of blue jobs and sustainable and innovative economic development and growth, due to its exceptional geographical position and specific coastal structure. it also noted the positive impact of the strategy on the development of sustainable and competitive tourism, which is of crucial importance for the european economy and the development of social cohesion within the union.
the events following the break-up of yugoslavia have placed a devastating and long-term mortgage on the economic development and cooperation between the countries of the adriatic and ionian region. in recent years, the region has also been hit hard by the economic crisis. the eu's third macro-regional strategy has chosen a plan of action to ensure that these countries can finally put their political and economic problems behind them through targeted cooperation. as the area plays an important role in strengthening the geographical continuity in europe, strategic and smart investments are needed for the whole region. at the same time, this region has enormous potential, which can only be exploited if all the countries in the region work together. the strategic investment funds that the eu has are providing the necessary investment in energy networks between countries, the elimination of 'missing links' in infrastructure, innovations in shipping and fisheries and the development of the region's tourist assets. eusair also enables the non-eu countries of the western balkans to cooperate with eu member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the jakovcic report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. this vote is a welcome to the commission communication on the european union strategy for the region. first, it is important that this region focuses on blue growth. it has a remarkable geographical position and a very rich marine biodiversity. these two factors represent a huge potential for the creation of blue jobs. secondly, it is necessary to improve transport networks and the distribution of energy between the countries participating in this macro-regional strategy and also between them and their other neighbours. finally, it is also important to preserve the quality of the environment in this region, as the adriatic sea is home to almost half of all marine species recorded in the mediterranean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the strategy is timely for two reasons, both linked to the political changes in the union. firstly, the juncker commission decided to focus its policy on investment, through the investment plan and the resulting european fund for strategic investments. the countries of the adriatic and ionian region therefore have a good opportunity to make up for the investment shortfall they have experienced in recent years. the strategy offers opportunities to target these investments in a way that delivers results for the benefit of the whole region. secondly, the commission has repeatedly stated that there will be no further enlargement in the near future. while this is bad news for the western balkan countries, the strategy will bring them closer to the union by aligning their policies and working closely with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which underlines the importance of cohesion policy for many member states, particularly in terms of investment in times of crisis, in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is a comprehensive strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, centred on the key objectives of employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. at the same time, the resolution also stresses that these objectives can be furthered by progress in gender equality.
in writing. ‒ this report dealt with an important policy pursued by the european union, namely cohesion policy. this policy, a key instrument for implementing the europe 2020 strategy, aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence. it has a budget of €351.8 billion for 2020. by voting for this report, i support the definition of thematic objectives that will make it possible to maximise the effectiveness of this policy. this report also covered the europe 2020 strategy for which the commission launched the review process in 2014. the report makes a number of recommendations for the mid-term review of the strategy. in the future, the future cohesion policy and the future long-term strategy of the union must be drawn up before the end of the current commission's mandate. the european parliament elections will take place in 2019, which imposes timetable constraints. in line with all these remarks, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the union's main investment, growth and development strategy, aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence and has a budget of eur 351,8 billion by 2020, so that the european union can continue to cope with the effects of the economic and financial crisis: high unemployment, uneven and slow economic recovery. cohesion policy aims to ensure that all energies and resources are mobilised and devoted to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of sustainable growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that we do not lose sight of the original role and objectives of cohesion policy and its importance as a tool for maintaining investment in european regions, especially in a context of economic crisis and instability. economic governance mechanisms should not impede the pursuit of the wider objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion by penalising regional or local entities. i have approved this text as it is vital to support the work of regional and local authorities even though i regret the non-adoption of the amendment i co-signed calling for the investment clause to be revised so that regional and national investments co-financed under the esi funds can be excluded from the calculation of national deficits in the context of the european semester.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i support the macroeconomic conditionality as a prerequisite of an effective cohesion policy. member states should be applying the eu economic governance rules. these will enable them to increase the value for money of the cohesion policy. if they do not follow the rules the commission will be able to request member states to reprogramme funds or suspend them if the member states do not take the required measures. it is a balanced compromise between different stakeholders.
in writing. the legal framework of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) aims to strengthen coordination between the different eu instruments. good governance is essential for effective economic growth and stable job creation. this report aims at a proper application of article 23 of the regulation on common provisions (cpr). the aim being to use the measures adopted under article 23 in the fairest and most balanced way possible. it is essential not to lose sight of the role of cohesion policy as a tool for maintaining investment in europe's regions. cohesion policy is essential because it covers all regions. by focusing on reducing territorial, social and economic disparities, it directly targets investment in the real economy. while good economic governance is necessary, article 23 of the dprk should not lead to more financial uncertainty and instability which would in turn worsen the precarious situation of the disadvantaged regions or those most affected by the crisis. it therefore seems necessary that the measures set out in this report be implemented swiftly.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of regulation 1303/2013 laying down common provisions relates to measures linking the effectiveness of the esi funds to good economic governance. this article is very important, since it allows the commission to ask a member state to revise its partnership agreement and the programmes concerned in certain circumstances or to suggest to the council that all or part of the payments and commitments be suspended. i decided to vote in favour because i believe, in particular, that decisions to reprogram or suspend under article 23 of the drc should be taken only in exceptional cases. i welcome the commission's declarations that it intends to keep them to a minimum. i regret, however, the rejection by a majority of the european parliament of amendment no 1, which called for the investment clause to be revised so that regional and national investments co-financed by the esi funds could be excluded from the calculation of national deficits in the context of the european semester. it is sometimes difficult or even impossible for a country to get money to co-finance a project (co-financing is compulsory) given the accounting rules of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my distinguished colleague, mr blanco lopez. a large majority of us share the concern about the practical implications of the reprogramming and suspension of the esi funds under article 23 of the dpr. in this report, your rapporteur has tried to strike a fair balance between the different conceptions of the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism from the point of view of its application as a last resort. it is essential that we do not lose sight of the original role and objectives of cohesion policy and its importance as a tool for maintaining investment in european regions, particularly in a context of economic crisis and instability. while good economic governance is necessary, such mechanisms should not impede the pursuit of the broader objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
we must do everything we can to avoid waking up in a world where the government interferes disproportionately with the private sphere of life. the nva delegation will nevertheless vote against the motion for a resolution tomorrow. the european parliament is reacting wrongly because it does not respect the division of powers. national security is a national competence and it is the eu member states that should seriously investigate the allegations of covert large-scale electronic surveillance. what the eu does need to do, however, is to continue to place data protection at the forefront. the trialogue negotiations on the directive on data protection in criminal matters started yesterday. that should be the focus and should remain the focus rather than, for example, suspending valuable instruments such as the terrorist financing tracking programme in a crisis.
i have looked over the original report by the rapporteur and there are some very good points in it. we need to streamline the european semester, put budgets in order, make the labour market more flexible and reform it structurally. many of the good points are still in this report, but they have been diluted. the report suffers from the same malady as the european semester itself. this report is lacking in focus, it's all about everything and more. that is precisely what the european semester should do: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
fellas, you have to stop all this nonsense. i understand, of course, that in your philosophy - in the almost religious world of your monetary union - you must move slowly but surely, semester after semester, step by step, towards an impossible unified economy, for the greater glory of your religion, ad majorem dei gloriam. it's the only way. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. please stop all this nonsense. you're alchemists who make things explode. only european cooperation between free and strong member states can provide a solution.
i think we should first of all thank mr rosati for his excellent work. a sensible policy is by definition a multi-track policy. i therefore welcome the commission's strategy of focusing on investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and improving employment policies in its country-specific recommendations. but it's not enough to make a correct analysis. of course, you have to sell them, and that's where things go wrong today. but here again, i think the key to success lies in a multi-track approach. on the one hand, the commission must have the courage to enforce the rules at the appropriate time, and in doing so also to monitor macroeconomic imbalances more closely. on the other hand, we must make a full effort to ensure that far greater responsibility is taken for these recommendations. i am therefore very pleased with the commission's recommendation to set up competitiveness councils in all eurozone countries. such independent expert bodies, with their expertise and, of course, authority, can also play a key role in creating public support for necessary reforms. i also believe that it is absolutely essential to involve national parliaments more closely in the various stages of the process. finally, i believe that the upgrading of certain social indicators, such as youth unemployment and the level of activity, will also contribute to greater involvement in the semester process.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, this debate tonight may not be the fiercest that we will see here in this parliament today, but i think that with this file we are creating more financial stability in a very important market for our european economy. securities financing transactions (sfts) play an important role in financial markets and the financing of our economy. i would like to congratulate the negotiating team for its very balanced approach. by a balanced approach i mean that the result has considered all sft stakeholders, whilst achieving financial stability. at the end of the day, we wanted to ensure that the reporting is actually being used and is useful for its intended purpose. the proposed regulation delivers binding transparency and reporting requirements in three key areas. first, all securities financing transactions have to be reported to trade repositories, and here the burden for non-financial parties, such as smes, was reduced by allowing their financial counterparties to do the reporting for them. second, we have ensured transparency towards investors. funds have to inform investors of their sft activities in the prospectus, and this will enable them to assess the risk as part of their investment decisions. third, the report addresses transparency around re-use of assets. parties have a responsibility to communicate the risks and consequences in the event of a default. assets can only be reused within certain parameters and with prior consent, except for title transfer collateral arrangements (ttcas) where the legal title has already been transferred. another important point is that we came up with a realistic implementation timeframe. we wanted to avoid the mistakes that we have seen with the implementation of emir and we rectified some of the shortcomings. all parties should now have sufficient time to implement the necessary requirements. to conclude, i believe that we have come up with a very balanced approach. we have created transparency in a difficult and technical market, both towards supervisors and investors with a minimal burden for all the stakeholders. therefore, i hope that members can join me in voting in favour tomorrow.
i am glad that this subject is back on the agenda. two years ago i wrote an own-initiative report on this subject in this parliament. it contained very specific recommendations for the commission, the member states and the business community itself to improve access to new forms of financing. we know that our smes are very dependent on bank financing. the smaller ones in particular have difficulty in obtaining financing in other ways. i think this is one of the things that we should try to change. we must try to give smes a culture of equity so that they can grow faster, create more jobs and make a stronger economic impact. my own professional experience also plays a part. i have seen how companies can grow much faster and move up the finance ladder much faster thanks to new forms of financing. it's about creating diversity in the marketplace. we need to look at venture capital and new forms of financing, such as crowdfunding, but we also need to remember private placements as sources of financing for our smes. the key is for european institutions to create a clear and stable regulatory framework that encourages long-term investment. we must also do everything we can to prevent fragmentation in our european union. the commissioner's proposal on capital markets union is a good example of this. we must remove national barriers, avoid over-regulation and ensure that we have a genuine single european market. of course, smes need not only financing opportunities but also jobs, skills, the right people, the right customers and also much more equity than might have been the case in the past. we must therefore do everything we can to create an ecosystem that can bring investors, entrepreneurs and smes together in a positive way. it is the only way we have at european level to guarantee investment in smes, which are the backbone of our economy.
in writing. there is sufficient scientific evidence that the current summertime arrangements have more negative than positive effects. this was shown during a hearing in the ep in march this year. the periodic changeover from summer to winter time and vice versa has not been shown to have any positive effect on transport, tourism, energy consumption, agriculture, health and european industry. - no, it's the opposite. it is also highly uncertain whether the introduction of summertime in europe has reduced energy consumption. the commission nevertheless maintains its firm belief that the scheme is favourable. it is hiding behind the option of a large number of member states, who apparently do not want to change the rules. it is unacceptable that the commission deliberately continues to ignore numerous research results from the eu and the rest of the world, particularly the usa, which highlight the negative effects of summertime. it is good that we are reviving the debate today in this plenary session. it is pointless to continue measures which many citizens find very burdensome. the commission is still holding up the boat. further political action is therefore needed.
today i shall be voting in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jacky foster. it has struck a good balance between supporting a nascent industry and ensuring the safety of citizens. this parliament too often falls into the trap of over-regulation. privacy fetishists see danger everywhere and threaten to stifle the growth of the industry in the bud with an abundance of regulations. but the drone industry needs realistic and stimulating measures. with this report, mr foster has struck a good balance between respect for privacy, the safety of the aircraft and the environment, and finally the growth opportunities for a promising industry. it is now up to the european commission to follow this line in its legislative work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which aims to adapt the missions of the european police college (cepol) to the provisions of the lisbon treaty and to enable it to develop and approve new training initiatives responding to the evolution of major crime (cybercrime, financial analysis, data protection, trafficking in human beings, etc.).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) which replaces a former jai council decision. the new proposal aims to give ecpol the appropriate legal mandate and resources to implement law enforcement training. it also improves the governance of the agency by aligning it with the principles of the common approach of the union's decentralised agencies. the new regulation also aims to create a genuine european culture of law enforcement by setting up european training and exchange programmes for all law enforcement professionals, including those still in training. my group and i would have preferred that cepol's headquarters should be in the hague, next to europol's, for more synergies between the two agencies. however, the parliament's resolution contains a provision calling on the commission to submit a report on the efficiency of the decision to establish cepol's headquarters in budapest through a cost-benefit analysis and an impact assessment.
in writing. the fight against crime and terrorism is carried out at all levels of government, including local government. the reform aims to extend the powers of the european police college (cepol) to all law enforcement agencies in order to maximise the effectiveness of european tools. the training is aimed primarily at ensuring better coordination between the various law enforcement bodies (police, customs, border guards) and at integrating them into a european logic. another great example of progress in securing our space of freedom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which also states that cepol was set up to improve cooperation between law enforcement agencies by providing training in the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences, the maintenance of public order and participation in eu police missions, and to promote a coherent training policy at european level. i also supported amendments which emphasize the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms in a repressive context.
in writing. ‒ the internal security requirements of the european union are constantly evolving and thus increasingly complicating the task of police forces and law enforcement officials. without the necessary skills, they will not be able to meet the challenges ahead and safeguard the security of the citizens of the union. effective and harmonious cross-border cooperation between all competent national law enforcement authorities is essential to counter the growing threat posed by transnational and organised crime. in this context, it is crucial that law enforcement professionals receive quality training in order to encourage and maintain such cooperation and to build mutual trust. the stockholm programme therefore called for training on european union issues to be strengthened and made systematically accessible to all law enforcement professionals concerned. the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for training law enforcement agencies. i voted in favour of the amendments proposed in the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text, which represents a real step forward in terms of transparency in securities financing operations. it updates eu rules on payment services by reducing the costs of invoices to be paid, by allowing new market players to use mobile and online tools to make payments on behalf of a customer. the rules in this dossier aim to make online payments safer by establishing data protection and liability rules for all online payment service providers. in 2014, interchange fees were already capped and surcharges for consumer cards banned under the multilateral interchange fee (mif) regulation for card payment transactions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it creates more financial stability in an important market, but without unnecessarily disturbing the market and its stakeholders. with this regulation we are transferring the sft market into a better regulated framework. the proposed regulation delivers binding transparency and reporting requirements in 3 key areas; firstly all sft transactions will have to be reported to supervisors so that they can monitor systemic risk. secondly we have ensured transparency towards investors so that they can make transparent investment decisions. and thirdly assets can only be reused within certain parameters and with prior consent. in essence, we have created transparency towards supervisors and investors with a minimal burden for all stakeholders.
in writing. member states are likely to adopt divergent national measures which could create obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market and be detrimental to market participants and financial stability. it is therefore necessary to prevent such distortions and obstacles from arising in the union. technical standards in the financial services sector should ensure consistent harmonisation and adequate protection for depositors, investors and consumers across the union. in order to ensure an effective regulatory framework for the shadow banking system, progress in the introduction and implementation of internationally consistent requirements is essential.
in writing. ‒ since the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 revealed an excess of speculative activity, major shortcomings in the regulation of the financial sector, as well as ineffective supervision, opacity of the markets and excessive complexity of financial products, i supported this report, which recalls in particular that the primary function of the financial sector must be to direct capital towards the financing of the productive economy and not the speculation of assets. the crisis has also highlighted the need to improve transparency and monitoring not only in the traditional banking sector but also in sectors where non-bank lending activities are carried out. the text adopted today contributes to this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which calls for transparency in financial flows and helps to prevent the speculation that caused the 2008 crisis and the tragedy experienced by millions of people as a result of the enrichment and frivolity of a few.
in writing. i have approved this report which follows edward snowden's revelations regarding the massive espionage being organized by the nsa. the report stresses the need to strengthen the protection of european citizens from mass surveillance by intelligence agencies. the recent decisions of the cjeu concerning, in particular, the safe harbour agreement, clearly demonstrate the need to protect citizens' fundamental rights to the protection of private data. the balance must be struck between respect for the privacy and security of citizens.
in writing. this resolution is a response by the european parliament to the many cases of mass data collection by various foreign intelligence services. these incidents should make us more vigilant about the way we handle our data and the agreements we conclude with third countries on this. it is also important in this context that whistleblowers are adequately protected.
in writing. it was crucial that parliament once again address the issue of mass surveillance by following up on its 2014 resolution which itself followed up on the revelations made by edward snowden. all the recommendations made by parliament last year have not been fully followed up, and all the guarantees requested have not been provided. parliament therefore remains concerned and reiterates its requests, which have not yet been satisfactorily answered. parliament and in particular its libe committee of which i am a member remains fully committed to this issue and will continue its work to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens are respected.
in writing. ‒ in the context of this resolution, which i supported but which my political group voted against, i had the opportunity to vote on amendments such as the one calling on eu member states to drop all prosecution against edward snowden and consequently prevent his extradition or other provisions that concern laws recently passed in some member states, which are extending the surveillance capabilities of intelligence services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which defends citizens' rights, the protection of privacy and respect for fundamental rights. it also stresses the commission's lack of courage in its strategies to counter mass surveillance effectively and with respect for human rights!
in writing. - we have to stop all this nonsense. in the eu philosophy, in the world of the pseudo-religious ideal of monetary union, it is natural that step by step, semester by semester, we should move towards a single economy, to the greater glory of the single currency. it's the only way. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. that's why they're gonna stop all this nonsense, because they're dangerous alchemists who are threatening to make the whole thing explode. the only way to prevent the worst is for free and independent states to return to european cooperation. i therefore reject the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, once again, advocates austerity measures without thinking about the well-being of citizens. the text suggests making the european commission's recommendations on the eu member states' plans for fiscal, macroeconomic and structural reforms compulsory. these recommendations are often untenable, such as the pension at 67, the reduction of social rights, etc. despite more than five years of failure, the watchword remains the same: austerity! massive investment in the real economy is essential for jobs and growth to resume. without real will on this matter, we risk remaining in the economic situation we are in for a long time. the first major step, however, was the parliament's rejection of the text on the european semester, which demonstrated the growing challenge to the austerity doctrine.
in writing. – i voted against this report which was eventually rejected by parliament. in essence i very much support the process and the commission’s three-pillar strategy of fiscal consolidation, boosting investment and structural reforms as well as the effort to streamline the european semester process. here it is important for member states to step up their efforts in all three areas. however a number of crucial elements were lost, such as no binding country-specific recommendations and the ability for national parliaments to vote on national reform programmes. in general the report was becoming more of a social report than a constructive report that looks at the most effective and coordinated way to achieve economic convergence. i could not vote in favour of a report that has lost much of its intended purpose.
in writing. ‒ the n-va has decided not to support this report. there are good elements in it, such as the reference to the positive role of flexible labour markets in combating unemployment, the importance of a sound budget and the need for structural reforms. but that message is weakened too much by references to matters that do not belong in this report and messages that go in the opposite direction.
in writing. the european semester is now the driving force behind our economic governance. the aim is to ensure coherence and to strengthen convergence in a common area. however, the recommendations are not sufficiently implemented, slowing down the convergence of our economies and thus weakening our common economic area. i regret that the european parliament did not agree to this report, which had the merit of calling for a strengthening of this mechanism. it is important that we show ambition in this respect. our economies need structural reforms if they are to be viable in a globalised world.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because all our key votes were rejected. the text has suffered the same fate, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ due to the economic crisis, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment, or more than 12 million people. in 2014, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. these figures are highly worrying as longterm unemployment is driving people away from the labour market due to the erosion of their skills and professional networks. i therefore fully support the resolution of the employment committee on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. the resolution is based on three main objectives: to significantly improve the registration of the longterm unemployed with an employment service so that they are all taken into account; assess the individual potential, needs and preferences of the longterm unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment; propose a comprehensible, balanced and adapted vocational integration agreement between the long-term unemployed and the services concerned at the latest when the person concerned has been unemployed for 18 months.
in writing. as the economic climate is gradually improving, it is time to look at how we can reactivate the longterm unemployed in the european union. some of the focuses are on increasing training and the use of targeted activation policies. the longterm unemployed must also be able to find employment elsewhere, and so retraining becomes very important in order to continue to use this human capital. this will benefit society as a whole.
since the economic crisis of 2007, longterm unemployment in europe has doubled. 60% of the unemployed have to go more than two years without earning an income from a job. as the period of unemployment continues, not only are work-related skills and competences lost, but the risk of social exclusion and poverty also increases. the recovery in the economy has not yet had a positive effect on structural unemployment. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the longterm unemployed are not displaced from their jobs. firstly, employment services and all the labour market partners involved should not wait for people to be longterm unemployed to prepare them for re-entry into the labour market. the earlier the return to the labour market is started, the greater the chances of finding a new job. in addition, the basis for a successful counselling project for the unemployed will always be to provide the unemployed with new skills and competences adapted to the rapidly changing requirements of the labour market. the better the preparation of the unemployed, and in particular the longterm unemployed, for the modern labour market, the greater the chances of finding a permanent job.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text and the three main measures in the proposal: i) significantly improve the registration of longterm unemployed with an employment service so that they are all taken into account; ii) assess the individual potential, needs and preferences of longterm unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment; (iii) to propose a comprehensible, balanced and adapted vocational integration agreement between the longterm unemployed and the services concerned at the latest when the person concerned has been unemployed for 18 months; the individual assessment should take place before the person reaches 12 months of unemployment so that the vocational integration agreement can be put in place before the person reaches 18 months of unemployment; the three-step approach should include non-governmental actors, such as social ngos working with the longterm unemployed, in the overall process, where appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution in which the european parliament votes in favour of legislation setting the guidelines for the use of civil drones. this should include training of users with information on privacy and personal data protection. aircraft should be equipped with detection and avoidance technology in order not to jeopardise the safety of manned aircraft and to take into account densely populated areas and no-fly zones such as airports. similarly, the use of drone systems by law enforcement and intelligence services should obviously respect the fundamental rights to privacy, data protection, free movement and freedom of expression. finally, the competent data protection authorities in the member states should share the specific data protection guidelines for drones used for commercial purposes.
in writing. i think it is important to establish a general harmonised framework with a european certificate and a european training for the safe use of drones, without wanting to issue an excess of rules. technology is evolving very fast. continued attention to research and development is therefore essential. the incorporation of an id chip to allow for the traceability of the driver can contribute to safety. clear european privacy rules are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the safe use of drones in civil aviation. commercial use is increasing and recreational use is becoming more popular. the resolution stresses that drones have the potential to stimulate economic growth and job creation but calls for all guarantees relating to privacy and data protection, including mandatory registration of drones and their equipment with identification chips. this is to facilitate accident investigations and the arrest of criminals who use them illegally. the commission should support research into 'detection and avoidance' technologies to enable drones to avoid collisions with other airspace users. it is also necessary to develop and use 'geotargeting' technologies to prevent drones from flying over no-fly zones, such as airports and nuclear power stations. the resolution also supports the rules proposed by the commission to help national authorities and other qualified bodies manage validation and surveillance activities in cross-border sales of drones and the provision of services.
in writing. the european commission, and i share its ambition, wants to catch up with the union and develop a european drone market. to this end, a strict and rigorous framework is needed. the development of the drone cannot be done at the expense of the right to privacy and data protection. while this technology has potential, particularly in terms of technology, it can also be particularly intrusive in terms of privacy. it was therefore essential to limit and control the risks of drift.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a report calling for the adoption of a european framework legislation on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems, more commonly known as drones. these small flying machines, which are becoming increasingly popular, are currently outside the scope of harmonised legislation at european level. in view of the increasing use of drones by individuals, whether for recreational purposes or for misuse, there is a growing need to ensure that drones do not pose a threat to public safety or privacy. the aim is to integrate drones into european airspace by using technological means: installing an identification chip that would help trace the wrongful owner, incorporating detection and avoidance software to avoid accidents or adding a geo-location program that would prevent drones from flying over no-fly zones. this would allow the safe and secure development of this booming sector, whose cross-border trade is hampered by the lack of mutual recognition of national authorisations for drones and their operators. the commission said it was preparing a legislative proposal which should be adopted by the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ rpas are now becoming a reality and will soon be available on the european market. the rpas market, which represents an opportunity to foster new job creation, is a source of innovation and economic growth for the years to come. but it also raises new challenges in terms of safety, security and respect for citizens' rights, which must be addressed before rpas can be used on a reasonable scale in a civilian context. the absence of harmonised regulations in europe and of validated technologies is the main obstacle to the opening of the rpas market today. regulation at european level covering all relevant issues, including safety, security, privacy and data protection requirements, is therefore necessary. in addition, r&d efforts are also required to ensure the gradual integration of rpas into civil aviation from 2016. in this respect, it should be noted that the european commission will use the horizon 2020 programme to support meaningful r & d actions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of european legislation on the use of drones. with 2 500 operators, europe dominates the world market for civil use. this technology, originally used mainly for military purposes, is now open to all, pushing the limits of existing legislation. to ensure the safety of citizens, respect for privacy and coherence between member states, while encouraging innovative technologies, european legislation is indispensable!
in writing. ‒ europe is the world's leading tourist destination. the number of foreign tourists visiting the union is expected to increase by 140 million annually until 2025. however, the tourism industry in europe also faces a number of major challenges. the digitisation of distribution channels, the increasing competition from cheaper destinations, emerging economies and seasonality are some examples. one in ten non-financial market economy enterprises is in the tourism industry and the sector employs no less than 12 million workers in the union. given the important potential of tourism in terms of growth, gdp, employment and foreign trade, i naturally supported the initiative of the committee on transport and tourism. it encourages the european commission not only to evaluate its current action plan for tourism but also to develop a new strategy. among the various pathways envisaged, the emphasis is on a budget line devoted exclusively to tourism, the development of new transnational european products, sports tourism, the sharing economy and the digitalisation of the sector.
in writing. tourism is an important source of income for the european economy and creates jobs. europe is still the world's number one holiday destination. however, we must remain competitive and keep pace with digitalisation. promotion and tourism must remain of high quality without red tape or excessive regulation.
the tourism sector in europe remains a growth engine and has become one of the main employers with 13 million workers. europe is still the world's top tourist destination, but we must remain vigilant. the competition from other tourist attractions is very strong. the tourism sector will also have to innovate to cope with competition. in a globalised world where national borders are disappearing, promoting europe as a top tourist destination is an important tool to highlight the rich variety of holiday opportunities in europe. to this end, we must continue to work on the digitisation of travel offers at a high level and improve the connectivity of the top tourist destinations, for example by improving rail links. we must also ensure quality services by making training for workers in the tourism sector cross-border and work on a wider range of services, developing both the possibilities of alternative recreation and tourism outside the high season.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report, which i supported, covers, among other things, the development of a brand strategy, the joint promotion of tourist destinations in europe, sustainable and responsible tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation. the tourism industry in europe is facing increased global competition, with emerging, lower-cost countries attracting international tourists. in the face of this competition, the text adopted calls for europe to exploit its comparative advantages, in particular the diversity of its landscapes and its extraordinary cultural wealth. pan-european and transnational tourism products are of the utmost importance for strengthening a common european profile. according to the european commission for tourism (ect), based on extensive market research, potential visitors to europe are attracted to europe by the range of experiences they can expect rather than by the number of countries they can visit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provisions proposed by my distinguished colleague, mrs de monte. tourism is a key sector of the european economy with growth potential and generates more than 10% of the union's gdp if tourism-related sectors are included. tourism is also an important driver of employment, directly employing 13 million workers, representing at least 12% of employment in the union.
in writing. ‒ the n-va voted against this resolution today because of the far-reaching measures. the tourism sector is in danger of being saddled with many new rules. in addition, the principle of subsidiarity is not respected. tourism policy is largely a matter for the member states and the regions. this is barely mentioned in the resolution. the tourism sector is one of the most important economic sectors in the european union. the sector is often dominated by small family businesses or smes. we must give these companies every opportunity and not bury them under administrative obligations. unfortunately, the resolution does not strike the right balance between support for an important sector and all sorts of unnecessary things. the sector does not need a new tourism agency, the sector does not need a new european budget line, the sector does not need another label. the n-va wants to give the tourism sector all the support it can get, but we do not believe that this can be done by additional european regulatory pressure. it is a missed opportunity for this resolution to fall into the old habit of centralized european bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ the tragedies of malaysia airlines flight 370 and air france flight 447 have shown the limitations of current air navigation systems, which have not been able to identify and locate aircraft in distress in a timely manner. as a result, search, rescue and recovery operations have been seriously hampered. flight tracking systems can only cover 30% of the airspace at present. the public's confidence in air transport must be maintained through the use of advanced technologies. the satellite tracking system is one of them. it would enable public authorities, air navigation service providers and airlines in europe and the rest of the world to strengthen and increase the efficiency of air traffic management and to significantly improve aviation safety.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on the development of technology for the creation of a global airplane tracking system. this technology, which uses satellites, is designed to allow aircraft to be located at any time and in any place on the globe. in view of the recent tragedies of missing aircraft, the development of such technology is essential to facilitate search and rescue operations. it should also make it possible to provide rapid answers to the families of those on board missing or crashed aircraft. the european parliament therefore favours the development of such technology and asks the commission to fix the frequencies to be used, in order to avoid any interference. i am pleased that the development of this technology may eventually make it possible to locate public transport aircraft even when they are flying over remote or desert areas. in view of the current situation, it is more important than ever to make aviation safety a priority. i therefore welcome and support the union's action to ensure ever greater safety for travellers.
in writing. ‒ the tragedies of air france flight af447 in june 2009 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 in march 2014 have highlighted the need for new systems to locate aircraft at all times. such global air traffic management surveillance systems would make it easier to locate an aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident. the european commission, in cooperation with the european aviation safety agency (easa) and the international civil aviation organization (icao), has started to examine the various technical options based on their performance, and has proposed rules on aircraft tracking. the text of the resolution i voted on today supports the commission's efforts to rapidly develop a global, results-based flight tracking system that allows air navigation service providers to locate aircraft and calls on the commission to take the necessary steps ahead of the world radiocommunication conference in geneva in november 2015 to support the future development of a global satellite flight tracking system.
in writing. ‒ the tragedies of air france flight af447 (1 june 2009) and malaysia airlines flight mh370 (8 march 2014) have highlighted the need for new systems to locate public transport aircraft at all times, even in remote locations. such surveillance systems in the field of global air traffic management would facilitate the tracking of an aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident.
madam president, i have a point of order if i am allowed to make one. yesterday we heard the british prime minister’s speech at chatham house in london, and he also sent a letter to mr tusk. it is clear that the changes that mr cameron is asking for are important but, at the same time, we also have a number of other problems in the european union that we have to solve. as you know, we in this house requested the presence of mr cameron, inviting him to come to explain his demands before this house. this is the house of european democracy. this is the european parliament. my request to you is to ask our president what is now the status of the invitation that has been sent to mr cameron to come before this house. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, welcome to the house, mr vice-president dombrovskis, i have listened to you very attentively. i don't hear much new in your speech, but if i listen to the faint signals, i hear the adjective or the noun "social" repeatedly. and i'm curious to know what's in the fall package. since you are talking about this and your boss wants the european union to be awarded a triple a rating for its social policy - and we are far from that - i would like to make a few suggestions. the results of the fight against poverty - as you have noted - are not very encouraging. but when it comes to fighting inequality, you have tools available to you in the semester. today, you say that we must continue to deregulate the labour markets, because we are finally allowing those who are excluded from the labour market to enter it more easily. but the result is that those who have jobs see their working conditions, both paid and unpaid, deteriorating simply because of greater competition between workers. what you could do instead is decide to focus your recommendations on tax instruments, because the tax instrument is the first redistributive instrument. if you really want to fight poverty effectively, perhaps this is the direction to take. do not tell me that tax policy is not a competence of the european union, because i have already seen in many country-specific recommendations recommendations on the tax system. so instead of focusing on competition in the labour market, you could say: 'i do encourage member states to introduce a tax shift from labour income to other forms of income', but you have to be careful because if you say 'from labour income to vat', it is again the weaker classes in society who suffer. so perhaps you could emphasize the issue of progressive taxation. we have been seeing a reduction in the progressivity of income tax in europe for decades. perhaps there is something to be done on this side which would at least enable you to recommend to the member states greater social justice. the same is true of competitiveness, which is not a bad word! i heard you talking about reviving the investment. the two areas where investment is absolutely necessary if we are to be competitive are energy efficiency and resource efficiency - in other words, for the same unit of gross domestic product, we should consume both less energy and fewer resources than our competitors. it is a question of greater independence for europe, which is known to be poor in resources and energy, but also a condition for competitiveness. it would be good to have this in your recommendations, since the european commission talks a lot about the circular economy, but i haven't seen much action yet. i would like to end with two specific countries, i have one minute left. firstly, germany: the barroso ii commission had once again protected germany by preventing excessive surpluses from being really targeted by the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. where are we today? the ifo forecast of 8.4% in terms of germany's trade surpluses. i hope that the macroeconomic imbalance procedure will point to the inadequacy of german domestic demand and ask germany to balance its balance of payments once and for all. a surplus of 8.4% is completely nonsensical from a macroeconomic point of view. secondly, i would like to say a few words about greece, first of all to our colleagues. i think it is important, in terms of democratic legitimacy, that our parliament closely follows what is happening in the implementation of the assistance programme for greece. and i think we need to stop procrastinating. we have an economic and monetary committee, an employment committee and a regi committee. let us gather them together and convene - i have no other word - not only the european commission, but also the eurogroup, the european stability mechanism and greece so that we can judge for ourselves the current challenges in the implementation of the plan.
in writing. the resolution sets out the european parliament's priorities for the future 'aviation' package to be presented by the european commission. among its priorities, parliament explicitly recognises the importance of regional airports within the union and in ensuring cohesion within european regions. it called on the commission and the member states to present a long-term strategic plan on the challenges and opportunities of regional airports in the context of the union. this is of course extremely important for the development of charleroi brussels south airport, which is obviously - by its dynamism and its remarkable results - an essential tool for the socioeconomic redevelopment of my region, for its image and for job creation.
in writing. the aviation package which is being put to the vote this afternoon aims to develop measures to stimulate the economy of air transport in the european union while maintaining high safety and social standards. i would draw your attention to the fact that working conditions in the aviation sector can have an impact on flight safety. it is therefore essential that this 'aviation' package contains ambitious social provisions and provides the necessary safeguards as agreed and in line with the high-level conference 'a social agenda for transport' organised by the european commission on 4 june.
mr president, at least this time they won't cheat in the group over there, because they'll all be out. so that's very good.
mr president, the telecoms package was adopted at the last plenary session of the european parliament, and i am pleased with that. however, the principle that all internet traffic should be treated equally by internet service providers is still not regulated. the zero rate item is not in the package as adopted, and i regret that. this point has remained unclear, probably because of too great a divergence of views between parliament and the other institutions. the commission proposes to deal with zero rate problems on a case-by-case basis only, but this is not enough. we need to legislate on this, in a way that is clear to all operators, to ensure equal access to the internet for all. we cannot accept that such a practice should be tolerated any longer, since we all agree to complete the single market. the latter must ensure perfect competition between operators and service providers.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr president, madam vice-president, i have listened to you attentively and i do not hide from you that i have been a little bit hungry. i think you're underestimating the gravity of the situation. the latest figures published by the commission indicate that there will be an additional 3 million refugees over the next two years. if that is the case, then it takes courage to say so! so i find you a little bit understated. but i find you a little above the truth as to the results you expect from the measures you have just taken or are about to take. i agree with the funds, but let us look at the syrian fund, which is 1 billion if the member states contribute up to the 500 million they have to add to the 500 million from the commission. one billion, while there are 2.5 million refugees in neighboring countries and 4-5 million internally displaced people in syria itself. a billion! in europe, for the relocation of 160,000 refugees, we're going to spend a billion. compare and tell me how objectively you don't expect that billion to be excessive. overall, i tend to say that when we look at the instruments that are already operational, such as the european development fund or bilateral cooperation, a billion from the syrian fund and 1.8 billion from the african fund is a drop in the bucket! i'd like to think that this will change something, but only marginally. what would be fundamental is that the european union and the member states define a global strategy and pool all the instruments to try to see how we can achieve better results than we have achieved so far. especially since there's still one question. who will be distributed these funds in turkey? who is asking for them, erdogan or the organizations that specialize in helping refugees? cooperation is fine, but submission and bending over is not!
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which is in favour of enhancing interoperability for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe in the continuation of the efforts made by the commission since 1995 to promote the exchange of data between administrations. interoperability can enhance the quality of public services, the competitiveness of businesses and the service to individuals.
in writing. this report reinforces efforts to improve interoperability between administrations. in the digital age and in an increasingly united europe, it is essential for administrations to make the interaction between administrations, businesses and individuals efficient, both at national and european level. in addition to lowering costs, interoperability will improve the quality of service and thus boost our society. the isa 2 programme proposes a series of measures which will enable us to better meet a major challenge facing all our member states.
in writing. ‒ with the isa programme coming to an end on 31 december 2015, a new eu programme for interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe was needed. the decision, which i supported, proposes here to establish, for the period 2016-2020, a programme on interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe (the 'isa2 programme'). the specific objectives are to: improve, exploit and reuse existing cross-border or cross-sector interoperability solutions; developing, exploiting and reusing new cross-border or cross-sectoral interoperability solutions; assess the ict implications of proposed or adopted union legislation and identify areas where new legislation could promote interoperability; to create a european interoperability reference architecture (eir) as a tool for developing and evaluating interoperability solutions; create an instrument to facilitate the re-use of existing interoperability solutions and identify areas where such solutions are still lacking; evaluate and promote existing and develop new common specifications and standards and establish a mechanism to measure and quantify the benefits of interoperability solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe (isa 2) because it is part of the continuation of the efforts in this field, in particular the isa (interoperability solutions for european public administrations) programme still in force, but at the same time opens a new cycle which cannot fail to take into account technological developments, the new needs of administrations and civil society and the new possibilities offered by cloud computing. the isa 2 will complete the digital single market and contribute to the implementation of an ambitious european digital strategy by acting as a global driver.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the new programme allows for crossborder and cross-sectoral interaction between european public services. the new isa2 programme will eventually lead to a harmonised interoperability landscape within europe, which will save costs and time in the long term. the proposal will also contribute to the creation of a digital single market within the european union. i also welcome the fact that the new isa2 programme is now also aimed at businesses and citizens and not just at public services. this will require the commission to respond more to the needs of civil society when drawing up this programme, or, in other words, to take account of the demand side as well as the supply side.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution of the parliament which aims, in general, to make the european elections more attractive. it proposes, in particular, to improve the visibility of european political parties by displaying their names and logos on ballot papers, on electoral material and in election programmes. it also proposes setting a common deadline of 12 weeks before the european elections for the nomination of leading candidates by european political parties so as to allow them to present their electoral programmes and organise the political debates between the candidates. the resolution also stresses the need for better representation of women in european elections and for the vote of european citizens residing in another eu country to be encouraged.
in writing. the organisation of european elections still varies widely between member states. although the principles for this have been laid down in european legislation, the procedure and practical organisation are largely determined by the member states. the european parliament therefore adopted a legislative initiative with recommendations to harmonise the european elections, to make them less national and to involve citizens more closely in the process. in order to enhance the visibility of the european project, it is recommended that a federal european electoral district be introduced alongside the european 'national' lists. this will enable all citizens, wherever they live, to vote for their candidate for president of the european commission. i also support the idea of harmonizing the distribution of seats and the voting age, of launching the campaign in all countries at the same time and of ensuring that the european elections take place on the same day everywhere. equal representation of men and women on the electoral roll or the right to vote for citizens living abroad, principles which i introduced in belgium as minister for institutional reform, are now incorporated in the european electoral law.
in writing. ‒ 42.61%, the lowest turnout in the european elections of may 2014, at least since the first direct elections of meps in 1979. the democratic legitimacy of the union's decision-making process is being undermined and we must think quickly about a comprehensive reform of the electoral law, towards more transparency and direct democracy. this is precisely the subject of the hübner/leinen report that i supported because it contains many proposals that it is essential to see completed before the next elections in may 2019: respect for gender parity in the constitution of the lists; introduction of the right for citizens of the union, including those residing or working in a third country, to vote in european elections; authorisation of postal voting, electronic voting and internet voting; support for the establishment of european electoral lists. this means that all citizens could directly elect the president of the european commission. the council, which must act unanimously, should take up the ambitious proposals for reform of the eu's electoral law voted on this evening by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ as a committed federalist, i supported the amendments by the green group which proposed that 25 meps be elected in a constituency formed by the whole of the european union, from pan-european lists, and that, in the next european elections, each voter should be able to express a vote for the pan-european list in addition to his vote for the national or regional list. unfortunately, these amendments were not finally voted on. i also voted in favour of the amendments which ensure gender equality and alternation between men and women on the lists of candidates for the european parliament elections in the forthcoming european elections.
in writing. ‒ in this vote on the legislative own-initiative report on a uniform electoral system for the election of members of the european parliament, i voted against the majority of my group on several occasions. i disagree with the need to use transnational or pan-european lists to increase the sense of europe in this kind of election. i know of no federal system where transnational lists exist. elected representatives represent their constituencies in a parliament. even in the united states, the states are not left out of the presidential election. pan-european lists are the dream of an elite who believe that this is how they can bring more europe to the people. they are the playthings of people who act as primus inter pares in parliament. they provide "show democracy". they are far-from-my-bed-show and in no way close the gap between the eu and the citizen. the gap can only be bridged by stronger policies, genuine behaviour and authentic action, and by addressing the problems of our time with action and conviction. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. this conviction is stronger for me than loyalty to the electoral programme of my party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union. the latter proposes that parliament decide to reform its electoral procedure sufficiently early before the 2019 elections in order to strengthen the democratic character of elections, the representative dimension of parliament by further balancing its composition, promote european citizenship and improve the efficiency of the way european elections are organised. the report also recommends that member states consider harmonising the minimum voting age to 16 in order to ensure greater equality for eu citizens in elections.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation votes against this report on the revision of the eu electoral law because we are in favour of an eu based on subsidiarity. this must also be reflected in the way the european parliament is elected. the visibility of familiar national party names and logos and of national candidates contributes to greater voter involvement and turnout and to an electoral system that safeguards the principles of equal suffrage and equal opportunities for political parties instead of the electoral and campaign system proposed in this report that the traditional european political parties seek to modulate in their favour. the first experience with the spitzenkandidaten in 2014 did not lead to a more transparent formation of the european commission, but to political haggling where the "grand coalition" of christian democrats, socialists and liberals to save the day of their own weak candidate in the hearings on the members of the commission-juncker put all its controversial candidate commissioners in one big bag and hostage the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the reform of the european electoral law. this is not a far-from-my-bed show. on 11 november, exactly 101 years after the great war, we voted for a more european european election of the european parliament. in this way we want to bring parliament, and by extension the whole of the european union, closer to the citizen and to give equal opportunities to men and women. the fact that eu citizens outside europe are now involved in the elections by being able to vote via the internet is what i call progress. i therefore fully support this initiative, which will make the european elections more democratic, federal and european. i believe that this is also a way of contributing to a better european awareness among the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to set out the european parliament's priorities for the future 'aviation' package to be presented by the european commission. among its priorities, parliament explicitly recognises the importance of regional airports within the union and in ensuring cohesion within european regions. it called on the commission and the member states to present a long-term strategic plan on the challenges and opportunities of regional airports in the context of the european union. this is obviously extremely important for the development of charleroi brussels south airport, which is obviously - by its dynamism and its remarkable results - an essential tool for the socioeconomic redevelopment of my region, for its image and for job creation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on aviation. the european aviation sector faces many challenges, including increased passenger flows, competition, passenger rights, aviation safety and co2 emissions. in view of the commission's forthcoming legislative proposal, it was essential that parliament should take a fresh stand on this matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. i am glad that the text adopted also refers to working conditions in the aviation sector and calls on the commission to make social provisions in this respect. finally, on the safety side, i welcome the emphasis on passenger safety and particularly on the development of technology to track every aircraft in flight via satellite.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to develop measures to stimulate the economy of air transport in the european union while maintaining high safety and social standards. since certain working conditions in the aviation sector can have an impact on flight safety, it was essential that this 'aviation' package contain social provisions and provide for the necessary safeguards, as agreed at the high-level conference 'a social agenda for transport' organised by the european commission on 4 june.
in writing. ‒ today the n-va delegation abstained from voting on the resolution on the future aviation package. the aviation sector is an important economic sector in the european union. the resolution rightly stresses that this sector must be given every opportunity to compete in the competitive world market. this can be achieved by reducing regulatory burdens, by innovation and by better implementation of existing legislation in all member states. the resolution calls for the completion of the single european sky. these are calls that the n-va agrees with. unfortunately, the resolution then reverts to business as usual. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. this is in direct contradiction to what has been said earlier in the resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social aspects of the environment. the resolution also calls for the introduction of more restrictive rules on the already over-regulated sector, and unfortunately contains some good elements to strengthen the competitiveness of the european aviation sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted, as did a large majority of my colleagues, in favour of the resolution on the future aviation package. the resolution calls for the european aviation industry to be given a boost to ensure its sustainability and viability. we can do this by further removing national barriers and thus achieving a truly european whole. i therefore support this resolution because it calls on the commission to support european airlines, to allow the different airports to compete on equal terms and to do all this without compromising the safety of passengers.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this parliament has decided to make the fight against the abusive tax optimisation of companies an important subject, since it set up a special committee on this issue last february. we shall be voting on the first report of this committee this week. i believe it will be adopted by a very large majority and i am delighted about that. our concern is that at its meeting last week the conference of presidents decided by a majority to postpone for at least a week the decision to submit to our assembly a possible extension of the committee on taxation, which was in any case the subject of a very broad consensus among the political forces. we did not want to give the impression that we were going to adopt the report of the committee and then decide later whether we were going to extend its mandate. we thought it was important to link the two decisions so as not to give the public the impression that this parliament is not interested in the matter. in the meantime, i have received very clear messages from various political groups - and therefore from the majority, which is in favour of the extension - that the conference of presidents could take a decision on thursday and put it immediately to the vote of this house at noon on thursday. in that case the problem would disappear and we could adopt the report on wednesday and vote on the extension of the committee on thursday. there was a doubt about this at the previous conference of presidents, but if that doubt is removed and if the political commitment is made to extend the term of the committee on taxation, there is no reason to delay the vote. this is our group's position.
mr president, the question of china's market economy status is being debated, as we have seen tonight. it would have a major impact on employment in our economy, particularly because china has a clearly aggressive trade policy. these fears are particularly acute in the steel sector, where employers and unions share the same view. china is not a market economy, it is flooding our market with steel products at prices that do not respect the principles of fair competition. recognising it as such would therefore be detrimental to hundreds of thousands of direct and indirect jobs and, more generally, to our economy as a whole. in order to be recognised as a market economy in the european union, china must comply with five technical criteria, but these are far from being met. we must defend the values of our socially regulated market economy and not grant that status to china. it is a question of the vitality and future of our economy, but above all of our industry and its jobs.
the energy union is a particularly good initiative for me to finally start working on a single european energy market. we all know that the 28 small national networks, the 28 separate national regulators and the different forms of energy policy adopted in 28 countries are no longer sustainable. a real european energy strategy presupposes that we at least try to work together and not make decisions which affect others without discussing the consequences with each other. i am therefore very pleased and can only applaud the fact that you are also ensuring systematic follow-up with this state of the energy union. it is particularly important to me that we work quickly towards clearly measurable objectives. a european regulator to follow that, an open and transparent market in which free competition can play and the stronger interconnection of our networks to make that market possible. investment security is crucial, because we must act quickly to improve this connectivity and certainly projects of common interest, such as the nemo project between belgium and the united kingdom, must be given priority. it is clear that, as with migration policy or economic policy, we really need a european approach. we have to stop the shredding. this is the only way for consumers and businesses to benefit from affordable, secure and sustainable energy in the long term.
do we want to meet the climate targets? do we want green energy? do we want to be energy independent? i think the answer is: loud and clear three times yes. but we must also be realistic. so let us not use this mid-term review to beat ourselves up. we need an ambitious but above all a realistic policy. my region, flanders, is doing well, but there are also limits to our small and densely populated region. our potential is at sea. but offshore wind energy is very expensive. who's gonna pay for that? are we going to pass the bill back to the consumer? eurorealism also means knowing how to choose the right priorities. first things first. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy in the light of the new energy market developments.
i think the energy union - and i hope we agree on this - is the most important policy package of the coming legislature. all the major policy areas and priorities are brought together here: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the following issues: it all comes together in this policy package. and it must be at the top of our priority list, at the top of the commission's priority list, it is already there, and also of the council's. 2016 is indeed, as you said, the year of truth. we must therefore make great strides in further increasing the share of renewable energy, further reducing our energy consumption and guaranteeing the continuity of gas supply. it's also the year of truth for our ets system. the paris climate conference starts in less than a week. the omens are unexpectedly good. we are looking forward to a binding agreement, an ambitious agreement, of course, and all sectors will have to contribute to this. our companies, energy-intensive companies, will also make a major contribution to our reformed ets system. we are naturally counting on a good balance so that they can maintain their international competitiveness. the commissioner, and i would like to add one last point, must remain our objective to link the ets system to similar systems on other continents. such a global emissions trading system would be the best tool to ensure low-carbon production worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to remove provisions relating to the area of freedom, security and justice which are outdated or have been replaced by more recent texts.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the commission has presented a proposal to repeal, on the grounds of obsolescence, the decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex 14 (anti-drug trafficking) and 52 (police cooperation memorandum), the declaration of the executive committee sch/com-ex 13 rev. 2 (abduction of minors) and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2018 on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr moraes' text. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. in this context, acts which are no longer necessary should be deleted from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted today to withdraw a number of legal acts from the schengen acquis. the commission's investigation has revealed that some of these provisions are no longer up to date.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which aims to remove certain provisions of the schengen acquis in the field of judicial or police cooperation in criminal matters which are outdated or have been replaced by other, more recent texts.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to simplify union legislation and to reduce its volume, in particular by repealing acts that have become obsolete. the commission has presented a proposal to repeal, on grounds of obsolescence, the following acts: 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, as their content has been taken up in subsequent acts, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), which exhausted its legal effects when sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. i voted in favour of this report, which approves the proposal of the european executive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moraes' proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. in this context, acts which are no longer necessary should be deleted from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ this withdrawal logically also implies a simplification of european law in the field of police and judicial cooperation, as some legal instruments from the schengen acquis have become obsolete. many of these acts have been replaced or clarified over the years by more recent and clearer legislation. that is why i have chosen to support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which aims to remove provisions in the area of judicial or police cooperation in criminal matters which are outdated or have been replaced by other, more recent texts.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the commission has put forward a proposal to repeal seven council joint actions, the content of which has been taken up in subsequent acts, and council act 1999/c 26/07 adopting the staff regulations of europol. the european parliament also proposed amendments to repeal two other acts which have also become obsolete: the convention of 17 june 1998 on driving disqualification decisions and council act 98/c 216/01 and council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant to collect objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moraes' proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. in this context, acts which are no longer necessary should be deleted from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous two proposals, i support this report. the abolition of these rules will lead to a desirable reduction in the number of legislative provisions in the eu. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to allow the european union to participate in the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), thus contributing to the responsible management of fisheries resources.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the european union's accession to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). as a full member of this regional fisheries organisation, the union will be able to take part in the voting and play the crucial role that is now its own as a promoter of sustainable fishing activities. through its external fisheries policy in general and in the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) in particular, the union can and must promote internationally the principles it applies internally, such as the sustainability of fisheries or the ecosystem approach. at a time when many fish stocks are threatened and when illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing dramatically aggravates the overexploitation of our seas and oceans, the union must work towards the responsible management of fisheries resources worldwide. it is not only the survival of fishing communities around the world that is at stake, but also our food security as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted yesterday in favour of the agreement between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) on the union's membership of this regional fisheries organisation. the signature of this international instrument will enable the european union to become a full member of the ccsbt. it should be noted that since 2006 the union has been a cooperating non-contracting party to the enlarged btwc. cooperating non-contracting parties shall participate fully in the activities of the btwc, but shall not have the right to vote. since 2006, the european union has been allocated a quota of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna per year for by-catches in the ccsbt convention area.
in writing. ‒ we fully support this text. the purpose of the proposal is to authorize an exchange of letters between the european union and the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the signing of this international instrument will enable the european union to become a full member of the enlarged csto from its current status as a cooperating non-contracting party. the european union has been a cooperating non-contracting party to the enlarged btwc since 2006. following the commitments contained in the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, the european union has pursued a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to join the eu's enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna because i am convinced that this membership will bring more coherence to the european approach to better protect marine areas. in addition, this membership demonstrates europe's commitment to the conservation and sustainable use of global fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the european parliament's committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), i welcome the new directive on insurance mediation adopted by the plenary, which is due to enter into force at the end of 2017, particularly as it will better protect against misrepresentation in this partly very complex area, make the insurance business more transparent and raise the level of consumer protection overall. the aim is to provide european consumers with better information, advice and the ability to compare different insurance products more easily. the latter is to be achieved, inter alia, by means of standardised information sheets. however, in order to avoid unnecessary confusion for consumers and for reasons of equal treatment, the new rules will apply not only to insurance companies and insurance brokers but to all companies selling insurance, including, for example, travel agencies and car rental companies.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted on an updated legislation in the field of insurance. from now on, when people buy insurance, they will be better informed, better protected. measures are also provided for insurance distributors and sales staff to respond more effectively to customer needs. insurance distributors will be required to register with a competent authority in their home member state. in addition, regular training and updating of sales staff will be required. continuing vocational training of at least 200 hours over five years should also be provided for. this amendment is a real step forward in this area and i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strengthening european provisions on information and advice offered by insurance salesmen. it seems to me that it is essential to simplify and also make insurance contracts more secure by introducing new information and consumer protection requirements which are the same for all insurance distribution channels. i am particularly in favour of the requirement to provide purchasers of insurance contracts with all information concerning the nature of the distributor's remuneration and, for certain complex life insurance products, the total cost of the insurance contract, including the costs of advice and services. it seems to me essential that, before signing a non-life insurance contract, policyholders receive, in clear and plain language, a product information document containing standard information on the type of insurance, the obligations attached to the contracts, the insured and excluded risks, and the means of payment and premiums.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted this directive which aims to ensure fair competition in insurance products and to strengthen consumer rights. in this sensitive sector, it was important to require insurance distributors to register with a competent authority in their home member state. moreover, given the complexity of certain insurance products, it was essential that consumers have clear information on the total costs of insurance contracts. in the same vein, they should also receive a clear and simple document informing them about the product before they sign a contract.
in writing. ‒ at this plenary session of the european parliament, i was asked to give my opinion on the supplementary report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance intermediation. the aim was to update the legislation on insurance to better regulate these professions and to better protect customers. among these changes, there is a simple, standardised and free pre-contractual information on the types of insurance contracts, which should be provided to customers in order to enable them to understand the nature and risks of the insurance-based investment product offered to them; an obligation for insurance and reinsurance intermediaries and intermediaries carrying on insurance intermediation on an ancillary basis to register with a competent authority in their home member state; an obligation for such intermediaries to be covered by professional indemnity insurance covering liability resulting from professional misconduct. many other regulatory obligations are imposed on these professions and protect the clients. in agreement with this reinforcement of the rules, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted on an updated legislation in the field of insurance. from now on, when people buy insurance, they will be better informed, better protected. measures are also provided for insurance distributors and sales staff to respond more effectively to customer needs. insurance distributors will be required to register; such registration shall be carried out with a competent authority in their member state of origin. in addition, regular and up-to-date training should be provided for sales staff. continuing vocational training of at least 200 hours over 5 years should also be provided for. as regards the benefits to the customer, citizens who subscribe to an insurance product will have to be informed of the total costs of the contract. they will also receive, before the conclusion of the agreement, standard, clear, comprehensible and free information on the type of insurance, the obligations linked to the contracts, the insured and excluded risks, as well as the means of payment and premiums.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because it aims to provide a better understanding of how insurance products are sold to european consumers. the proposal will also contribute to the development of a level playing field for all parties involved in the sale of insurance products.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this report which recommends that member states engage voluntarily in the development of policies to combat child poverty focused on correcting the main factors contributing to child poverty. one in four children in the union is at risk of poverty, and a multisectoral approach is needed to put an end to this dramatic and unacceptable phenomenon. this is obviously achieved through appropriate social policies and aid, but also through voluntary measures in the field of employment, the fight against school drop-outs, access to culture and all social activities. the support of the parents is also fundamental.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution calling on member states to make the fight against child poverty a priority. the un convention on the rights of the child states that all children should have access to education, health care, housing, recreational activities, and a balanced diet. however, 26 million european children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, or 27.7% of those under 18. the figures vary from one member state to another, but are particularly high in the eastern european countries. in belgium, 23.2% of children were affected in 2014. an increasing number of children are also at risk of malnutrition. the problem is multidimensional. poverty is not just a matter of money; it is also linked to issues of social exclusion, health and education. children in single-parent families are generally more exposed to poverty. among the recommendations i particularly support is the call for member states to guarantee access to public, free, open and quality education for all children at all ages.
in writing. in recent years, child poverty has increased significantly in a number of eu member states. this increase is one of the undesirable effects of the financial and economic crisis. one in four children in europe is at increased risk of falling into poverty. since such a situation places a particularly heavy mortgage on the further development of a child's cognitive and social skills, any form of child poverty should be prevented and addressed rapidly and by appropriate means. firstly, because children must have the right to develop into resilient individuals in all circumstances, but also and above all to avoid the transmission of acquired cognitive and material backwardness from generation to generation. in order to halt the persistence of structural poverty among young people, it is therefore appropriate that the commission and the member states set clear objectives and develop instruments to reduce child poverty. the best recipe for social exclusion and generational poverty is to ensure that children, regardless of their current material or social background, continue to have access to good nutrition, energy, good health care and quality education.
in writing. ‒ child poverty is growing inexorably year by year in europe. according to eurostat data for 2013, 26.5 million children in the eu-28 are at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion and 1.6 million children are already in a state of severe material deprivation. this is intolerable and contrary to the rights proclaimed by the united nations convention on the rights of the child. and while there are many reasons for concern, the means of curbing this phenomenon are difficult to implement because of the limited financial resources available from the public authorities. however, the zuber report does suggest ways of strengthening the "safety net" and reducing the number of families with children at risk of poverty. first, member states must continue to guarantee a universal, public, free and quality education and health care system. the commission, the european parliament and the european parliament must seize the opportunity of a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework to increase the allocations of the european social fund and the food aid programme for the most deprived. the juncker commission would also give a social dimension to its action by launching a legislative proposal for a european minimum income.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, 26.5 million children in the eu28 were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this is unacceptable given the level of wealth created on our continent. in order to conduct an effective policy in this regard, it is important to bear in mind that child poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon and therefore requires a multidimensional response. of course, employment is a major factor, but not necessarily the determining one. it does not always guarantee the end of poverty for the families of the children concerned. i believe that in order to fight for the reduction of child poverty, member states must devote more resources through their child-specific support policies, which must be based on prevention. as far as the commission is concerned, the fight against poverty must be taken into account at all stages of the budgetary process of the european semester as well as in cohesion policies. finally, the social dimension of emu must include a specific indicator of child poverty. today i have decided to vote in favour of the report which takes up the ideas set out here.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. the elimination of child poverty must be a priority for n-va. however, it is for the member states to determine how poverty reduction objectives are to be achieved. the present report does not sufficiently respect the division of powers between the eu and the member states. it is also particularly important that member states retain policy autonomy in setting up their social security systems and that a policy to combat (child) poverty can continue to be pursued. the nva delegation stresses, however, the positive role that the eu can play in tackling poverty and in encouraging and supporting member states, for example by facilitating the exchange of 'good practice'.
in writing. ‒ we voted this week on a text that raises the alarm about child poverty in europe. the figures are staggering: one in four european children is on the verge of social exclusion and poverty. precarity, malnutrition and lack of access to health care: child poverty is becoming a permanent feature of our countries. 27.7% of young people, or 26 million european children, are on the brink of poverty, victims of a policy of austerity that is too often blind and inhumane, and of national policies that are no longer social enough. the european parliament, by its vote today, is sounding the alarm and shedding light on these dramatic figures. it is up to the european commission and the member states to put in place the tools for a policy of far greater solidarity than the one currently in force, so as not to condemn the future of european youth.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because in recent years we have seen an increase in the number of children in structural poverty in europe. this report underlines the urgent need for all of us to do more to tackle child poverty.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is once again shining in this report with a pubescent drive to make money. my group is not a fan of the so-called cohesion policy anyway, but it is becoming difficult to find 'cohesion' at all if there is no clear definition of the target group, in this case 'marginalized communities'. the report itself states in no uncertain terms that there is no definition of what constitutes a marginalised community. the only result can only be that budgets are again provided and inscrutable flows of money are created without any strategy or well-defined goals.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to promote socioeconomic and territorial cohesion and to reduce social inequalities such as poverty and social exclusion. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assist the member states in the preparation of the next eu action programme. this includes the most marginalized groups. the exclusion of the roma population and their living conditions are a particular cause for concern. given the important role of cohesion policy in integrating such marginalised groups, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution. the commission is called upon to define more clearly the marginalised communities and to include them more clearly in the funding options.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the urgent need to support the socioeconomic, societal and territorial integration of marginalised communities and the important role played by cohesion policy in this integration. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of children into society. i have of course supported this report.
in writing. "no one can live for himself, no one can live for himself", said paul hymans. the crisis has become social and moral. it is a crisis of humanity's drift away from immediate needs and the ideal of enrichment, deepening inequalities and undermining social cohesion. globalisation does indeed produce technological revolution, political will and open markets, and is a real opportunity for all if it is humanized. it goes hand in hand with the ethics of consciences and intelligences, leading to the sharing of goods and resources to help human flourishing. that is why the adoption of such a resolution, which seeks an integrated but not exclusive approach, reinforces my feeling that europe is an example of successful globalisation at a regional level.
in writing. ‒ marginalized communities in europe, including roma, often suffer from a lack of integration. for a long time this parliament has been calling for better living conditions for these communities. however, the european union has a good tool to combat this lack of integration, namely cohesion policy. the report discussed at this plenary session of the european parliament covers several aspects. firstly, the commission is asked to publish guidelines on the definition of marginalised communities, for which, i would remind you, there is no definition at european union level. the commission is also requested to provide detailed information on how to benefit from funding opportunities for marginalised communities. the commission must also facilitate the inclusion of marginalised communities in the design, implementation and evaluation of projects as an instrument for the empowerment of these communities. finally, it is important that recommendations on them be presented in the context of the european semester. in line with all these proposals, i voted in favour of this report, which i hope will improve the integration of marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the most powerful instruments at the disposal of the european union to combat inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. all european societies contain groups and communities that are victims of structural exclusion and segregation by the majority of the population, and these groups lack access to the most basic public infrastructure and services. in addition, they are very often affected by poverty, unemployment and poor sanitation in a totally disproportionate way. the vote on this text is, in short, only logical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to tackle the problem of social exclusion of certain marginalised communities, such as the roma. i believe that cohesion policy can help to speed up the removal of obstacles to the better social and economic integration of such communities.
in writing. ‒ with the increasingly global challenges and the upcoming un climate conference in paris, the eu's role within the un is a key issue. i welcome this own-initiative report, which calls, among other things, for the establishment of an eu seat on the security council and calls for improved cooperation and coordination between member states. only in this way can the eu focus its joint efforts with the united nations more effectively, especially in ensuring world peace, security, development aid and the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which insists that the union's foreign policy objectives will be better met in the united nations. this includes the issues of peace, security, development and respect for human rights that the union faces and which require global responses.
in writing. the n-va delegation voted in favour of this report. we must be realistic, the european union will not be allocated a seat on the security council in the foreseeable future. we are, however, strongly in favour of a greater role for the union within the united nations. our delegation therefore believes that the european parliament and other eu institutions should in the long term seek an eu seat on the security council. the highest un body must be made more representative, so that it better reflects the realities of the early 21st century.
in writing. the european parliament calls in this report for the eu and the un to expand and strengthen the special partnership they share in a number of areas. we are facing a number of global challenges, such as growing insecurity, the climate challenge, epidemics, migration and the protection of human rights, all of which require a strong, united, global and collective response. in order to better and more effectively anticipate these current and future challenges, the un, as a global organisation, must not avoid a number of reforms, including the reform of the un security council. it is still based on the geostrategic balances of the immediate post-world war ii period. in the meantime, however, the balance of power has changed, new economies have emerged, great nations have disintegrated, and other multinational organizations have gained prominence. a reshuffle of the un security council on the basis of these new geostrategic balances is therefore desirable and a permanent eu representation on this body is recommended. a modern un security council will also need to be more rapid, more alert and more politically responsive to conflicts and security problems.
in writing. ‒ in this report, which i voted on yesterday, parliament recalls that the union and its member states share the values and principles of the united nations charter and play a key role in promoting its principles and objectives in the context of the union's external action. the adopted text also welcomes the fact that the union and its member states are actively participating and contributing to the work of the united nations system in different ways and in different forms, but considers that they should be more visible. it also welcomed the major contribution of the union to humanitarian aid and development around the world, recalling that the eu is the world's largest provider of humanitarian aid and development aid. the text also recalls that the union has become a genuine international player and therefore enjoys a 'privileged observer' status at the united nations. it also recalled that the union was committed to actively supporting a thorough reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representation, transparency, accountability and effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ to better achieve its foreign policy objectives, the union should strive to develop global governance within the framework of the united nations system and to increase its influence and that of its member states within that system. the union is committed to actively supporting a thorough reform of the un system to strengthen its legitimacy and regional representativeness and to improve the transparency, justification and effectiveness of action to address today's complex and prototypical challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu's position within the un should be strengthened and that europe should speak with one voice more often at international level. this is all the more true in these uncertain times when europe is facing global challenges that can only be solved by a united european response.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not to say that the taxe special committee's delivery was laborious and that the baby was not really wanted by everyone, and certainly not outside the walls of this house. and, of course, while this baby is only a few months old and some would already like to shorten his life, it will be extended anyway, and he will get a break on thursday and i look forward to it. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this report, elisa ferreira, michael theurer and alain lamassoure, who i think share our collective indignation at the way in which the tax war waged by the member states is actually damaging all our citizens and ultimately only benefiting the shareholders of large companies. i am therefore pleased that there is such a consensus and it is true that this report is encouraging. it is a question of publishing information country by country, compulsory and public, and it is a question of a common and consolidated corporate tax base. i am proud to say that this is a first step, mr fox, towards greater harmonization, which does not mean one size fits all - to use your language - in corporation tax. it also talks about the protection of whistleblowers, and that's all there is to it. but now it should not be left to chance. i find that the most blocking people in this case are absent. where is pierre gramegna to represent the council? i'm addressing an empty chair here. this is not a coincidence, of course, since everyone knows that this tax war was waged by the member states and that they have no real desire to change. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is true, mr moscovici, you are right, it is not easy. nevertheless, i think the commission can do one or the other: first, if you want us to press, give us access to the documents. because, frankly, the way you've given us access to it is not worthy of a democracy: behind closed doors, with a ban on talking about it or using it. it's a great laugh! as for the country-by-country release, you've started your process, which is very nice. we have a negotiation today on the shareholder rights directive and i expect the commission to simply support parliament's position. it's as simple as that. it doesn't require an impact assessment, a consultation, or i don't know what else. act, and you will be judged.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on this very important report. we can no longer tolerate tax fraud and illegal tax evasion. it is not possible for companies to pay less tax than citizens with the lowest incomes, and it is certainly not possible for smes to pay more tax than multinationals. it's bad for the economy. i am therefore pleased that this report makes proposals on these crucial points to establish a fair and transparent taxation system in europe. member states should ensure that tax legislation is in line with the principles of the internal market. the tax policies of the member states must not distort competition, but it is important that fair tax competition be maintained in order to attract firms. we need economic diversity in europe and fair competition will make it economically easier for certain countries to attract investment. i am also very pleased that the report addresses the over-complexity of national tax systems and also makes proposals to address that over-complexity in order to close the loopholes in the taxation network. i think it is a very important report and i hope that the commission will do everything possible to translate the balance we have found into legislation in the coming period.
madam president, commissioner, as you have said, tax justice is, of course, fair taxes for all of us, because it is normal to pay taxes and it is normal to contribute according to what we earn. i would like to remind you what taxes are for. it is used to finance social security, hospitals, schools, public transport and all the infrastructure that depends on it. more generally, i would like to make it clear that public investment is an essential element in promoting economic development, otherwise who will build our airports, our ports, our industrial zones, our multimodal platforms? public investment is also essential for social cohesion, urban development, work in neighbourhoods and the necessary security of our citizens. we all know what could be done in our member states with an extra billion euros a year. a whole series of multinationals had forgotten about it, and fortunately, whistleblowers broke the swiss scandal and the luxleaks scandal. in response, as you know, the european parliament has worked for several months in a conscientious way to understand and trace the flow of money that escapes taxation. i would also like to thank our two rapporteurs because in this report there is a whole series of measures which may not be able to limit tax evasion to 100%, because the inventiveness of tax advisers seems to be limitless, but which will, in any case, allow us to put a brake on this kind of drift to limit it strongly. this aspect represents the glass half full. the glass is half empty, of course, because parliament does not decide alone. the commission and the council must also decide to be ambitious if the measures we are proposing are to have any effect. the european commission, a little encouraged by our work, seems to be on the right track. the council, on the other hand, is more resistant to change and i think very clearly that this is where our next battle lies. if we have identified the problems and if we are proposing ambitious solutions, then we must of course be able to convince the council to follow us, which is why i support the extension of the taxe committee. this will enable us to continue the fight and to convince those who are strongly opposed to the introduction of a fairly distributed tax.
imagine if there were only one airline and one electricity company in the whole of the european union. prices would be higher and services would be lower. we all know that. that is why we do not like monopolies. competition squeezes prices and keeps companies sharp. the same logic applies to governments, to member states of the european union. a single european government would cost more and provide us with less services. tax competition keeps member states sharp and keeps taxes low, although there is room for improvement in this area too. my group will not vote for this report because it is precisely this report that points the finger at those member states which are doing the necessary and are willing to share information, but also because this report constantly attacks tax competition and because it does not sufficiently focus on the issues that it should really be about: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the unfairness of state aid and to ensure that transparency is finally fully guaranteed.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, i too will begin by thanking you because i am afraid i will not have time to do so at the end of my speech. i would first like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, starting with my colleague and friend josé fernandes, who has done a remarkable job, our colleague gardiazabal rubial, and who has probably done the most ungrateful job, our colleague gahler for the agencies. i would also like to thank all our colleagues - those in the secretariat and the political groups, as well as our personal colleagues - for the hard work they have done. i would like to congratulate the vice-president in particular, who has succeeded cum laude in her first real budget for 2016, and the commission delegation. finally, and in particular, i would like to congratulate the president of the council, pierre gramegna, our friend, so to speak, for his perfect knowledge of the files, his sensitivity to priorities and his remarkable spirit of conciliation. the successful completion of the conciliation process within the deadlines is largely due to him. i naturally agree with everything that my colleagues, president jean arthuis and rapporteur-general josé fernandes, have said before me, and as rapporteur for the other sections i shall confine myself to my responsibility, namely the other sections, and i shall start with the european parliament's budget for the year 2016. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very strict budget. if we exclude an exceptional allocation of eur 15 000 to improve the security of buildings and the security of computer systems, which is very necessary today, you will agree that the european parliament's budget for 2016 is only 1.6% higher than in 2015. secondly, the budget is all the more rigorous because it was calculated on the basis of an adjustment of wages of 1.2%, whereas under the provisions of article 65 of the staff regulations, this adjustment will in reality be exactly double what was used as a basis for drawing up our proposals. we have agreed in conciliation that this adjustment, which concerns all the institutions of the union, will not be financed by additional appropriations but by reductions in expenditure on certain posts and internal transfers. for example, for the european parliament, this will represent an additional effort in 2016 of almost €10 million. thirdly, this rigorous budget, doubly rigorous, i should say, is also a budget for reforms. these reforms concern first and foremost the organisation of a better system of supervision and control of local assistants attached to parliamentarians. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are applied in a way that is compatible with the common market. other reforms, including those on the parliamentary affairs regime, are currently being considered and will be implemented in the near future. fourthly, this reform budget, which is doubly rigorous, is also, as i said, mr president-in-office, madam vice-president, a budget of institutional loyalty. this loyalty particularly concerns the commitment of the european parliament to reduce its staff by up to 5%, as all the institutions have done, a commitment which was made in the framework of the agreement on the financial perspective for 2014-2020. the european parliament specifically commits itself to implementing this reduction by 2019, according to a precise timetable starting in 2017 and finishing the operation in 2019. i would stress, however, that the european parliament will make the necessary effort to exclude temporary posts in political groups from the scope of this reduction obligation. the political groups, their capacity to work, their dynamism, their ability to confront and compromise, are the very essence of the european parliament's dynamism. to reduce the capacity of political groups to act by reducing their numbers would be a miscalculation which would only strengthen the bureaucracy and technocracy which are often too intrusive, if not arrogant, in some european institutions. as regards the other institutions, the court of auditors, the committee of the regions, the court of justice, etc., we have essentially followed the original commission proposals, which we felt were well formulated. finally, the council, which had initially been much more restrictive, agreed to join our position. one regret, however, concerns - i have already had the opportunity to say this - the european court of justice. we have indeed obtained the creation of seven additional posts to improve the security of the handling of classified documents and the security of the buildings, but it will nevertheless have to cut 20 posts, which will have a serious impact on the logistical and linguistic support services needed for the court's work, at the same time as the number of judges is to be doubled. in conclusion, you will have understood that although the 2016 budget is not the new wonder of the world, it is nevertheless a good transitional budget before the necessary revision of the financial perspective next year. i must say, i'm relieved to be done with it.
after the attacks in paris, strong responses are needed. the nva delegation therefore supports this report. moreover, the report contains a number of measures which the belgian government has also decided to take, including the immediate detention of returning combatants. the fight against terrorism on the internet is also a priority. the report calls for punitive measures against internet companies that do not comply with a judicial or administrative order to remove jihadist content. in this way, freedom and security are brought into line, with appropriate safeguards for freedom of expression. i call on my colleagues in this chamber to show political courage and to put dogma aside. we must find a good balance between, for example, privacy and data protection, but we must also move forward. finally, i would like to call for a sense of reality. of course, refugees are not terrorists by definition, but several terrorists have been found to have entered europe as asylum seekers. the paris attacks prove that. unfortunately, there is a security risk and that is why we must now really work on data collection and exchange at the external borders. no registration, no rights. i was just trying to help.
madam president, i welcome mrs dati's report in its present form, which is a good summary of her initial proposals and the proposals, additions and adjustments of the political groups. it is a great basis for working against radicalisation. that said, madam president, i should like to take this opportunity to say a few more personal words. i am belgian and you know that our country is going through a particularly difficult time at the moment and we greatly appreciate the solidarity of the other european countries. but i must tell you that i am a little overwhelmed by what i read and hear about my country and, in particular, the municipality of molenbeek. i recognize the weaknesses of my country, i even recognize its faults, particularly in molenbeek and not only in this municipality, but we must not make molenbeek the only european centre for the production of jihadists. the only terrorist attack to date on belgian soil was not carried out by a citizen of molenbeek, but by a french national. the people who committed the paris attacks, two or three of them, in any case, are not from molenbeek, they are from syria and have other nationalities. it is not the people of molenbeek, madam president, who have killed in new york, madrid or elsewhere. crime is a multinational and we must fight this multinational everywhere.
a lot of people have said it here today: the timing of this debate could not be more timely, a week after paris and at a time when we are facing a very great threat in belgium and in brussels. i would like to repeat the question put by mr deprez: does not focus all its attention on brussels and molenbeek. every eu country is faced with radicalised young people. so please let us not hand out black pies, but take action. i must say that as a mother of two small children, it is very difficult for me to understand why these young europeans are going to syria to fight a war that is not theirs. so let's put everything we have into prevention. let us intervene. let us give more resources to local governments. let us step up the fight against racism and discrimination and punish returning young people very severely. they belong in prison. only in this way, with greater european cooperation, can we live in freedom and without fear.
in writing. the tragic events in paris require a multi-pronged response, both security and prevention. this report addresses several important aspects in this respect. in terms of prevention, he stresses the need for internet service providers to collaborate with the authorities, but also the role of education, social policies and actions in neighbourhoods. it also stressed the absolute need to increase cooperation between member states in the collection and exchange of information, both in preventative and law enforcement matters, particularly through tools such as sis ii, vis and ecris. the member states must supply these data banks in order to maximise the effectiveness of the fight against these barbaric acts. i also supported the amendment calling for the urgent reinforcement of checks at the external borders of the schengen area in the current situation. this reinforcement and the exchange of information are essential if we are to maintain the schengen area and ensure the security of our citizens.
in writing. how many more bereaved families, how many minutes of silence, broken by the sound of bombs, will we have to observe before this global guerrilla war, which is being fuelled by terrorism, is put to an end? on friday, november 13, paris, the city of light, experienced hours of darkness. the symbol of love and freedom, paris, has been struck in the heart, once again, echoing the other parts of the world struck by the blind and absurd hatred of a terrorist organization that has no state and is islamic only the name it has given itself. in the face of the pool of violence, in the east and in the west, in the face of the instigators of fear, it is more than ever time for unity. europe must unite to uproot the radicalism that is taking root in some of our homes. if the sharing of information and coordinated action is to be the rule, if this sad time is to mark the emergence of a genuine and necessary european defence, the answer cannot be to be content with security, because the breeding ground of fanaticism is penetrating into all the social, cultural and economic breaches that our society leaves to appear in its soil. in the name of freedom, fraternity and equality, dear to france and to humanists, we will stand.
i think this is a very important debate, because we are in danger of ending up in the worst of both worlds instead of the best of both worlds. we are in danger of losing the steel industry on european soil, while we are working very hard to build an industry that is clean, that emits less co2 and that ensures that the people who work there do so under good conditions. we are replacing our steel with steel which in china and elsewhere is often produced under poor working conditions and in a polluting way. in other words, that is not the way we should go. i therefore welcome the report by mr martin, which strikes a very important balance between the future of industry - and i am a strong believer in a european union with strong industry - and at the same time meets very ambitious climate objectives. i am particularly disappointed that this debate is being used to attack climate policy, and this a week before the very important decisions we are going to have to make in paris. because that's not what this is about, for the record. to date, the steel industry has mainly made money from the ets rather than paid for it. what we need is a strong european economic policy with great environmental ambitions, and that means a real anti-dumping policy, commissioner. i would ask you to show a lot of ambition in this and not wait for complaints from individual companies, but to be very active on anti-dumping policy and at the same time be very ambitious on climate and energy policy. what is important is an energy union in which we ensure that electricity prices are brought into a level playing field throughout the union.
mr president, our colleague, mr martin's report comes at a crucial moment for the future of the steel industry and employment in europe. the previous european commission has wisely met the challenge by launching its steel action plan. in recent years, many production units have been closed down and abandoned. the steel sector, however, remains highly strategic in europe with many jobs. contrary to popular belief, it is a high-tech industry, incorporating many innovations and relying on a skilled workforce. the european commission must be able to rely on the high-level conference and the social partners to support the development of the sector. the steel industry must be protected from unfair competition from countries like china. in the face of a chinese economy characterised by heavy state involvement and aggressive trade policy, the potential damage to our economies and jobs is considerable. china is not a market economy, it would not be acceptable to grant it this status as long as it does not meet the five technical criteria, which are far from being met. we must defend our model of a socially regulated market economy, which is the future of our economies and our jobs.
mr president, i am the daughter of a steel worker and i have seen the steel industry change and transform since i was a child, and today we can say that the steel industry in europe is an advanced sector. it is a vital sector for europe because it supplies the other industrial sectors which are now our jewels at european level. so i think that we must defend this steel industry by being responsible in terms of the investments we can make in this sector. we must also ensure that it is environmentally friendly, that it is a clean industry and that it is an industry with protected social rights. we must also be consistent and i ask the council to be able to modernise the instruments of trade defence because by blocking these instruments we can no longer defend our industries, all our industries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind.
mr president, madam commissioner, if there is one issue on which the triple a social policy proposed by the president of the commission depends, it is the health and safety of workers. in fact, every year in europe thousands of workers lose their livelihood and tens of thousands die of work-related diseases. these figures cannot be ignored. behind these numbers, there are human tragedies. however, we have tools to reduce the number of accidents and occupational diseases. the first is certainly prevention in the workplace, the second is social consultation. who better to define the right policies than the actors on the ground? finally, in europe we have remarkable tools to support these policies, such as the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in dublin. these are vital work in support of policies to improve living and working conditions, in support of health and safety policies. finally, although it is necessary to simplify and make our regulations more intelligent, there is no question of doing so at the expense of the health and safety of workers. let us not forget that better working conditions, fewer accidents, fewer diseases, mean more competitive firms, healthier social security systems and above all, avoided human tragedies. you can't put a price on that.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your speech. it is true that the pension gap is not something that happens at 65. it's something that builds throughout a career, i would say even before a career. this is something that is assigned to us as a traditional role of women, already at the time when we choose our education because we see, for example, that the less qualified you are the greater the pension gap is and so there is already this discrimination that is taking place. there is, as you said, discrimination in employment from the moment of entering the labour market, there is the question of parttime work, which is not compensated for when the pension is calculated, there are careers, which are linked to maternity with maternity leave, but also parental leave which is not accessible in the same way for men, and so there are these inequalities. there are the difficulties in reconciling private and professional life, which require withdrawal from the labour market. there are also the women's sectors, the so-called poor sectors. we have spoken about the wage gap, but there is also the fact that in women's sectors there are no second and third pillars of pensions and so all this actually leads to a situation where there is an impoverishment of women. you have mentioned a number of ways, and i will give you some more, which were voted by this parliament in the framework of the equality plan drawn up by mrs noichl. i would like to return to paternity and maternity leave, which must be paid leave, family services, which must be tailored services, and also a first pillar of pensions which must be properly fed. this is not what we are experiencing today in europe, where we are tending towards a reduction in the first pillar of pensions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to continue where mr kamall ended his intervention and say that i was also shocked by the way that we have behaved since 13 november as politicians. instead of showing unity – we have seen it again in this debate this morning – we throw insane accusations at each other. dans la langue française, il existe une expression pour cela: on parle de "jeux de politique politicienne", auxquels nous jouons parfois et qui exploitent la tragédie parisienne, chers collègues, pour marquer des points faciles dans le cadre d'élections, disons-le contre l'europe, contre les réfugiés, contre l'islam et même contre le parlement européen. nous allons l'entendre dans quelques instants. marine le pen va le faire à nouveau. je trouve cela indigne et il est surtout indigne de dire: "vous êtes responsables du terrorisme, parce que vous n'avez pas conclu d'accord sur le pnr". je dois vous dire, chers collègues, que c'est exactement le contraire qui est vrai, parce que la réalité est que ce parlement avait proposé dès le début un règlement – pas une directive – avec effet direct et immédiat pour créer un système unique au niveau européen, qui serait transnational afin d'éviter justement les défaillances systématiques que nous constatons chaque fois que l'un ou l'autre service de renseignement national qui connaissait les malfaiteurs n'a pas transmis les informations pertinentes au pays où les faits se sont déroulés. tel a été le cas en 2004 à madrid, tel a été le cas en 2005 à londres, et tel est maintenant à nouveau le cas à paris. nous faisons à chaque fois le même constat. et qu'avons-nous sur la table? une directive. dans le meilleur des cas, il faudra au moins deux ans pour l'appliquer et, de surcroît, ce sont vingt-huit pnr que nous allons créer dans l'union européenne. j'estime qu'il faut au moins prévoir un échange obligatoire d'informations entre ces vingt-huit systèmes mais, naturellement, monsieur le ministre, les états membres le refusent. alors, je vous le demande aujourd'hui, qui est responsable à l'origine de l'absence du pnr? j'étais président du conseil européen, j'étais là avec jean-claude juncker, le 11 septembre 2001, lorsque nous avons été capables de créer en six mois – jean-claude, vous vous rappelez – le mandat d'arrêt européen qui était un système obligatoire, pas comme les mesures que vous venez d'énumérer, qui sont à chaque fois facultatives, volontaires et dont l'application dépend de la volonté des états. pour mémoire, monsieur weber, seul m. berlusconi était contre et a négocié une période de transition, pour lui-même, je suppose, de presque dix ans. ce n'est qu'en 2014 que le système est entré en application en italie. arrêtons donc de faire des querelles politiciennes, ici, dans cette assemblée. il est trop facile de se lancer des attaques pareilles! ce qui est impératif, maintenant, c'est l'unité et la solidarité autour de la france; je dirais même un front commun, une europe unie dans le combat contre daech et le terrorisme. il s'agirait du meilleur hommage que nous puissions rendre aux 130 jeunes qui ont péri, qui ont été abattus lors des attaques à paris. c'est dans le même esprit que je vais lancer aujourd'hui un appel en faveur de la création d'une agence de renseignement européenne. m. cazeneuve, le ministre de l'intérieur français, a raison quand il dit qu'il faut lutter d'urgence contre le terrorisme et se concentrer sur l'application immédiate des nombreuses mesures qui ont été prises depuis les attentats de charlie hebdo. mais nous constatons quand même que dix mois plus tard, une douzaine d'états n'a pas encore transféré les données requises par le système informatisé de schengen – douze états depuis dix mois qui ne transfèrent pas les éléments nécessaires! selon moi, gouverner ne signifie pas seulement mettre en œuvre les mesures qui ont été décidées, mais aussi prévoir et préparer l'avenir, surtout en matière de lutte antiterroriste. les terroristes, chers collègues, ne connaissent pas de frontières et nous devons donc aussi nous doter d'une capacité en matière de sécurité et de renseignement qui traverse également les frontières. prenons le cas d'abdeslam, toujours en cavale – c'est tout de même criant! il a été contrôlé la nuit des attentats par la police française à cambrai, il a pu continuer son chemin parce que la police ne le connaissait pas, mais je peux vous dire que la police belge le connaissait bel et bien! eh bien, je vous dis qu'avec une agence européenne de renseignement au service de tous les policiers européens, abdeslam aurait certainement été arrêté. voilà la réalité qu'il faut dire aux citoyens. si nous devons choisir entre souveraineté et sécurité, je choisis la sécurité de nos concitoyens qui doit l'emporter sur la souveraineté. c'est dans cet esprit, monsieur juncker, que je vous ai envoyé, à vous et à m. avramopoulos, une proposition concrète concernant la manière de procéder pour y parvenir. in the same spirit, we also have to show unity and solidarity with france in the use of article 42. we did not discuss this today because – let us be honest – for far too long we have outsourced our problems: inside the union to france, as in mali; and, outside the union, to the americans. if the americans do nothing, nothing happens – as in syria, for example. a european military coalition around france has to break this stalemate, eradicate daesh and also facilitate a political solution. i hope that this coalition around france on article 42 may be the start of a real european defence community and foreign policy. again, i repeat: this is the best tribute we can pay to the 130 young people who were victims in paris. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– we can see what it means! if national sovereignty means what we have seen in spain, what we have seen in london, and what we have seen in paris, i do not think there is proof that national sovereignty can guarantee the security of our people. clearly, as i said, terrorism knows no borders, but our intelligence and security services still have to cope with borders. that is the contradiction we have to address.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, i was deeply shocked by the attacks in paris two weeks ago, and like all of you, my thoughts are with the victims and their families, i would say all the victims, those in paris, beirut, sinai and elsewhere. but beyond these emotions, our responsibility as policy makers is not to give our citizens this or that measure to reassure them, but to take concrete, fact-based measures that address the problems. the first fact is that most of the terrorists who have committed attacks in the last decades in europe were known to the police and intelligence services, but not all of them, simply because information, intelligence is not shared. although they were known to be dangerous, they were not properly monitored, simply because of lack of funds. the first lesson we need to learn is to make sharing intelligence the norm and to give ourselves the means to exploit that intelligence. in this respect, the inaction of the governments of the member states has contributed to the fact that the attacks could take place. in the face of this, we understand that the response of wanting to put our entire societies under constant surveillance is both inadequate and democratically unacceptable. inadequate, because it is not the information that is missing, but its sharing and exploitation. this is unacceptable, because in a democracy there is a basic principle which is the proportionality between the measures adopted and the desired effect, and nothing can justify the general surveillance of our societies. china is trying and failing to prevent terrorist acts. but of course - as you said, mr schmitt - we must tackle the arms trade, we must tackle the financing of terrorism, we must tackle the abuse of the internet to spread hate speech and violence. that's it for the immediate answer. yes, mr cazeneuve, you are right, europe must recover, but the europe that must recover is that of the member states which remain stuck on their national identities. they still have not realised that in security, as in so many other matters, there is only shared sovereignty. now, i think we cannot afford to answer three questions. first, what is the effect of our multiple interventions in iraq, afghanistan, libya and elsewhere on the terrorist threat? do these interventions reduce it or increase it? i think that's an open question. secondly, what about our relations with this islamic state that has succeeded - i mean saudi arabia. a state which flouts fundamental rights, crucifies, beheads and cuts off hands, but with which we have - i still remember mr valls not long ago - excellent relations. what do you want? our addiction to oil makes us dependent on people like that. you have understood that the energy transition is not only an ecological issue, but also a strategic and security issue. the third question we have to ask ourselves is probably the most fundamental. the other disturbing fact is that the terrorists who have acted in recent decades have grown up here, have passports - as you said mr schmit, i believe - from here. why have our societies become a fertile ground? i have no illusions that we will hear hate speech and violence for decades to come. we must ensure that our societies do not constitute a fertile ground for such discourse, that it falls flat, and then we can ask ourselves the question of a society in which competition between everyone and everyone is the rule, in which consumption is the only horizon, in which exclusion increases every day, in which ethnic or religious belonging is increasingly a factor of exclusion. one may wonder how all this contributes - without being the sole cause - to the increased risk of terrorism. i know emotions are strong, i think we have to resist the temptation to be overwhelmed by them, because if our societies, driven by these emotions, were to tighten up in a safe retreat, the terrorists would have won! i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling that france, which was attacked two weeks ago, has placed freedom, equality and fraternity at the heart of its republican values. i believe that it is by keeping what was a promise to all our fellow citizens and to all the citizens of the world that we can live in security in free, open and democratic societies. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr marek, i do not have a clear answer to that question, simply because i do not live in saudi arabia. what i do know is that the regime in saudi arabia is propagating a form of islam that is probably the most totalitarian and fascist in the world. do we ask the opinion of the citizens in saudi arabia? i don't remember hearing of elections in what is an absolute monarchy. i don't think that citizens, especially saudi citizens, are asked their opinion on whether it is right to crucify, behead or stone. i don't think many human beings like and support that kind of thing. it is a regime with which we are allied, when in fact it is the islamic state that has succeeded. that's the model that isis wants to emulate.
allow me to speak as a fleming who spent much of his youth in and around brussels. "my brussels, i'm in your pocket. a warm coat, your inner city". it is the opening words of a popular flemish song that still give me chills, because my youth is spent for a good part there in the narrow streets of brussels. and my heart bleeds when i hear that the attacks in paris were co-planned and planned in molenbeek. the question is not what went wrong. the question is: where to start? a wrong belgian and european asylum and migration policy combined with inefficient local structures. brussels, a city of 1.1 million people, a separate region, its own parliament and government. in addition, the city has combined 19 mayors and six police zones - yes, you heard right - with an electoral policy of laissez-faire laissez-passer, which gave priority to the need for integration and integration. radicalisation and criminals found their european base here easily. the time for deliberate inaction is over. priority must be given to security, tackling radicalism, tackling organised crime and the illegal economy. we also look to the union, with strong member states working together, to combat international terrorism. we must urgently get rid of the high "dream factory" rate of the european union. the protection of our citizens begins at the external borders of the union. if we do not do that, this union is doomed.
yesterday we debated the report on radicalised young people going abroad. we have heard a lot of voices here in parliament today. and i have to tell you: they're pretty much in sync. i hear a lot of calls for more europe here. i hear calls here, as from guy verhofstadt, for a european intelligence service. i hear unanimity here about the need to strengthen the protection of our external borders. i hear votes are being taken here to vote on the pnr this year. i must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i am actually going out as a convinced european, but i would like to ask you one thing, council and commission. do it now! let's check those borders! let that in, this year! let us see that this unity is carried out!
in writing. following the terrible attacks in paris and the terrorist threat in brussels, it is crucial that we in europe join forces to find a quick and decisive response. without a rapid exchange of information on suspicious passengers between national security services, terrorists can cross the border within schengen far too easily. we therefore want the european passenger name record (pnr) system to be operational by the end of the year. we call on the other parties to finally make their decision on this crucial matter which has been dragging on for too long. we must also speed up the practical implementation of effective common control of europe's external borders. the development of a european border and coast guard is a top priority, together with the creation of 'smart border checks' of all those who (re) enter the schengen area - including us, eu citizens - and the automatic exchange of this data within the schengen information system (sis). we also need to address the role of the internet and social media in radicalisation and recruitment in a rapid and effective manner. providers should take responsibility and actively participate in the removal of illegal or radicalised content.
in writing. terrorism crosses borders. not only the borders of the eu member states among themselves, but also the borders between eu and non-eu countries. terrorism is a global problem. so, as with climate change, that other global problem, it's nonsense to think that going back to the home country can solve the problem. countries on their own, no matter how large or small, are not able to cope with global problems. after all, climate change does not stop at national borders, nor do radical ideas and terrorism. so we need more cooperation, not less. strengthened cooperation within the eu but also internationally. within the eu, this means greater cooperation between intelligence services, the maximum sharing and exchange of information (with respect for the privacy of ordinary citizens) and the creation of a european intelligence service. all this combined with a proper control of our external borders so that schengen can be maintained. but also between the eu and third countries, more cooperation is needed to stop terrorism and help countries like syria on their way to a transition to a democratic state. only an international coalition can do that. anyone who thinks that one country can create a safer world on its own is mistaken.
mr president, commitments were made here in the chamber on monday. if you, mr president, had any legal doubts about the validity of the directive, you could have expressed them then. besides, you don't deprive yourself of your freedom of speech on everything, so if you had something to say you had to say it at that time. what you just said is wrong, legally wrong! there is no problem with a special committee tabled a report, voting a report, by a two-thirds or a ten-thirds vote, if it feels like it. it is not for you to give the legal interpretation of martin schulz. we have a legal department for that and the legal department has not spoken to that effect. commitments have been made by the president of the ppe group, by mr peter simon on behalf of the socialist group, and these commitments must be kept. tomorrow, therefore, i expect the conference of presidents to extend the mandate of the taxe committee as promised. there's no question of tax 1, 2, 10 or 69, if you will. your abuse of power, mr. president, is starting to tire everyone here. we are not subject to king schulz here! (applause from the group of the european people's party)
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which takes note of draft amending budget no 8/2015 presented by the commission and the council's position on it. the rapporteur deeply regrets that this draft amending budget entails a reduction of eur 9.403 billion in the member states' contributions to the union budget, but does not propose any compromise to reallocate these appropriations to the financing of the refugee crisis, whether it be aid to ngos, funding for the african fund or reception in refugee camps in countries neighbouring conflict zones.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on draft amending budget no 8/2015. this update is necessary to address the current refugee crisis by providing additional financial resources. tens of thousands of syrians have been forced to flee their homes as a result of the unrest and violence that has rocked their country for more than 18 months. it is clear that additional financial efforts are needed to provide humanitarian aid to all these refugees in the long term. i deeply regret that the vast majority of member states have not yet made the financial commitments they have promised for the african trust fund, which currently stands at 200 billion out of 1.8 billion, the trust fund for syria and the un agencies helping refugees. i reiterate that refugees must benefit from the fundamental principle of non-refoulement, whereby they must be able to flee from very difficult humanitarian situations. the democratic deficit, discrimination, inequality and the limitation of resources can only be overcome if we adopt the path of consensus and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which raises the alarm by pointing out that significant additional financial resources still need to be made available to deal with the current refugee crisis. the adopted text also regrets that the member states have not yet honoured the financial commitments made to the trust fund for africa, the trust fund for syria and the un refugee aid agencies, commitments which were reiterated at the informal meeting of heads of state and government on migration on 23 september 2015, the european council on 15 october 2015 and the valletta summit on 11 and 12 november 2015. additional financial efforts are needed to provide humanitarian aid along the transit routes and to accommodate unprecedented numbers of refugees in the cities and regions of europe. i also deeply regret that no solid compromise has yet been reached on the use of the reimbursements generated by draft amending budget no 8/2015 to deal with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ we are rebuking member states that have not yet honoured their financial commitments to the trust fund for africa, the trust fund for syria and the un refugee aid agencies, commitments that were reiterated at the informal meeting of heads of state and government on migration on 23 september 2015, the european council on 15 october 2015 and the valletta summit on 11 and 12 november 2015. i regret that the commission said that the member states were €2.3 billion behind schedule at the beginning of november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it emphasises the need to provide substantially more financial resources to solve the refugee crisis. unfortunately, this report also rightly points out that member states have far from fulfilled their promised contributions to the eu trust funds.
in writing. ‒ in response to the refugee crisis, the european agenda on migration has not only provided for a number of immediate operational and legislative measures, but also budgetary measures to implement these proposals immediately. in order to address this exceptional situation, the flexibility instrument will be mobilised to increase the appropriations provided for in the 2016 budget beyond the ceilings of heading 3 and 4 by a total of eur 1 530 million. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which approves the mobilisation of the budgetary flexibility instrument for 2016 to provide additional appropriations to deal with the scale of the migration and refugee problem, which requires a significant increase in financial resources. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 were made in accordance with the provisions of the staff regulations.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation believes that the commission should have done more with the resources already available under heading 3 (security and citizenship). it would have been better to have shifted inefficient or unused resources before having to resort to the flexibility instrument. the european parliament has voted in favour of this commission proposal, as tackling the asylum crisis is a priority for the n-va delegation.
in writing. given the importance of migration flows, it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations. this will complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 by eur 1,504 billion in commitment appropriations to finance measures under the european agenda on migration. it was equally important to do so with regard to the external dimension of the refugee crisis, by mobilising the flexibility instrument for an additional amount of eur 24 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. as i have always said, it is imperative that the budget of the european union be flexible to adapt to the realities we face in a globalised world.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the flexibility instrument is being used to provide the sum of eur 1 506 million in commitment appropriations to heading 3 (security and citizenship) and eur 24 million in commitment appropriations to heading 4 (europe in the world). in view of the urgent needs, these amounts will be used to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis, and i welcome this. based on the expected payment profile, the payment appropriations corresponding to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will be set as follows: eur 734,2 million in 2016, eur 654,2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58,6 million in 2019.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is absolutely essential that europe responds in a timely manner to the refugee crisis. it is essential to have sufficient financial resources to deal with this crisis.
in writing. the eu solidarity fund is, as its name suggests, not just a technical tool but an act of solidarity towards disaster-stricken regions in the member states and developing countries. it is a strong political signal that europe is much more than an international organisation with distant institutions, it is a project of living together. our world is translating the interdependence of all into a necessary solidarity. our main challenge in a globalised world is that of unity, of humanity, that is to say, being able to live in solidarity with all peoples. i welcome the fact that the proposal for a decision of the parliament and the council mobilises a maximum annual ceiling of eur 500 million for the period 2014-2020 and that the fund can be mobilised up to eur 50 million in payment and commitment appropriations for the purpose of the rapid and efficient disbursement of disaster advances in the following year.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is intended to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by large-scale natural disasters and to express europe's solidarity with the european regions affected. the fund thus has the capacity to provide financial assistance to member states and accession countries in the event of a 'major natural disaster', i.e. if the total amount of direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0.6% of the country's gross national income. it can also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. the conditions governing the mobilisation of the eusf are set out in the relevant basic act (council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002) as amended in 2014 (regulation (eu) no 661/2014). the present proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council, which i voted for today, is not linked to any particular disaster. it is intended instead to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the purpose of the rapid and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster occurring in the following year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by mr christoforou on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, for the purpose of paying advances under the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it will strengthen the effectiveness of the european solidarity fund. i am convinced that this measure will speed up the disbursement of aid by means of an advance payment before a final decision is taken.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report approving the 2016 budget. compared with the council's initial proposals, this budget provides for increased funding to deal with the refugee crisis, and it increases expenditure in important areas such as research and development and support for smes. parliament thus secured an additional €800 million for the distribution of refugees across the european union and additional funding to support neighbouring countries. this work will be supported by increased funding for agencies dealing with migration-related issues. frontex will be able to hire an additional 60 people, while bea and europol will be able to create an additional 30 posts. in addition, we secured an additional €18 million for financial assistance to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees (unrwa). however, vigilance and combativeness will be needed to ensure that budgetary levers are properly used to boost quality employment and strengthen the fight against poverty.
in writing. ‒ this is a rigorous budget, which increases by only 1.6%, while we have to invest 15 million in building security and it security. it is also a reform budget, marked by strict controls on the hiring of local assistants, so that deviations, or even real abuses, are quickly detected and do not happen again. finally, it is an interinstitutional budget of loyalty in which parliament confirms its objective of reducing its staff by 5% according to a precise timetable until 2019. it should be stressed, however, that this 2016 budget of the european union is a transitional budget before the necessary revision of the financial perspective next year.
in writing. ‒ as indicated in the 2016 budget, additional resources should be allocated to tackle the asylum crisis. the n-va needs to invest mainly in sensitively strengthening europe's external borders, promoting reception in the region so that refugees can stay safely close to their region, and improving cooperation between european intelligence services. these measures should help us to prevent new asylum dramas. it is also positive that the 2016 budget remains within the expenditure limits of the multiannual financial framework and that the eu is using this budget to focus on the competitiveness of our economies. the nva delegation in the european parliament approves the 2016 budget for these reasons, but warns of unjustified euphoria. it is unacceptable that the european parliament, for example, needs two more years to reduce its civil service by 5%. the eu, like national governments, must do more and better with less.
in writing. ‒ addressing the root causes of migration in africa, helping refugees in the member states, improving competitiveness by helping businesses, protecting farmers and supporting youth employment and learning mobility are some of the key priorities in the 2016 budget approved by parliament this afternoon. in addition to the eur 143.9 billion needed to cover its expenditure, the union has committed eur 155 billion for various projects. balancing the many legitimate needs of the union, it represents only about 1% of the gross national income of the 28 member states and only 6% is spent on administrative costs, which is a complete misunderstanding of the costly 'european bureaucracy'. it is a europe that is now in a position to act in a wide range of sectors that directly affect the daily lives of europeans, even if adjustments are already to be expected, particularly in view of the refugee crisis and the funds that will soon be allocated to turkey to deal with it.
in writing. ‒ in the 2016 budget, which i voted for, the overall amount of commitment appropriations is €155 billion, with a margin under the ceilings of the 2016 multiannual financial framework of €2.3 billion in commitment appropriations. the overall amount of payment appropriations for 2016 amounts to eur 143,9 billion, an increase of 1,8% compared to the 2015 budget. the flexibility instrument shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 1,5 billion in commitment appropriations for heading 3 (security and citizenship) and eur 24,0 million in commitment appropriations for heading 4 (europe in the world) as part of the measures to respond to the refugee crisis. compared to the commission's initial proposal, there are increases of eur 31.8 million for commitment appropriations for horizon 2020, eur 14.2 million for the cosme programme (improving access to finance for smes) and eur 6.6 million for erasmus+, which i welcome. for heading 3 'security', the level of commitments is set at eur 4.052 billion, with no margin below the expenditure ceiling for the heading and with eur 1.5 billion being mobilised under the flexibility instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr deprez on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, approved by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint text because it is clear that the european union needs to have sufficient resources to deal with the refugee crisis. there must be more resources to protect europe's external borders. the external borders of greece, italy, etc. are also the external borders of all individual member states, and so i voted for this text which, among other things, gives more money to frontex. it is a necessary step forward to bring the present crisis under control and to safeguard schengen.
in writing. ‒ diethylhexylphthalate (dehp) is in the category of so-called endocrine disruptors. these are chemicals that can have a harmful effect on the human hormonal system. they can lead to breast cancer, infertility, diabetes, and even alzheimer's disease, among other things. dehp is mainly used as a plasticizer in the recycling process of plastic items. it is found in all the consumer goods we use every day, such as textiles, furniture and building materials. scientific tests have shown that dehp affects the mammalian hormonal system and may even lead to irreversible consequences for human reproduction. in this context, and because there are already less harmful, viable and cheaper alternatives available today, i fully support the present resolution which opposes the authorization of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which rejects the commission's decision on the authorisation of the use of recycled flexible pvc containing dehp. studies have shown that this component is harmful to living organisms.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe that the european commission should not allow the recycling of plastics containing the dehp flexibilising additive for the production of new products. dehp is known to be toxic. it disrupts the endocrine system and can affect the rate of development and reproductive abilities of the individual. recycling needs to be further developed and encouraged, but this argument cannot justify the use of substances whose waste can be hazardous. i am also concerned that the operators who applied for authorisation to recycle dehp have not demonstrated that workers would be adequately protected from health risks.
in writing. i welcome the rejection by the european parliament of the commission's draft decision on the recycling of dehp-containing plastics. i join the majority of my colleagues who expressed in their vote their concern about this phthalate, which is known to have the capacity to disrupt the endocrine system. since this chemical is considered to be of 'high concern' under the reach regulation and since the effects of endocrine disruptors on human health must be fully considered, the shortcomings in the authorisation application convinced parliament to oppose the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ in 1999, when i first came to the european parliament, the european union banned the use of six phthalates in children's toys, the most common of which is dehp. this chemical, derived from phthalic acid, is used as a plasticizer and has been evaluated as an endocrine disruptor, thus posing a risk to human health. this characteristic justifies that in 2005 the ban was extended to all soft pvc childcare articles containing phthalates. the european parliament sounded the alarm this afternoon about the massive use of dehp in everyday objects by adopting a resolution opposing the authorisation of the recycling of plastics containing the dehp plasticizer for the production of pvc. this is in contrast to the opinion of the european commission, which would be in favour of it. the reasons given are not convincing: the recycling technique would justify the continued use of substances whose waste could be hazardous and a marketing authorization would enable manufacturers to reduce their production costs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'.
in writing. ‒ as early as 2000, the european commission's communication (com ((1999) 0706) to the council and the european parliament on a community strategy on endocrine disruptors included dehp in annex 1 which lists 553 candidate substances with an apparent endocrine disrupting effect. dehp is a reproductive toxicant. the european executive must protect european citizens and their environment from dangerous chemicals, so i voted for the european commission to withdraw its draft request for implementation.
in writing. ‒ pvc containing dehp is widely present in everyday consumer products such as textiles, furniture and construction materials. since dehp is not chemically bound to plastic, it is readily dispersed into the environment. an application for authorisation should focus on the use of the substance and the presence of the substance in recycled materials is not to be taken into account for the granting of an authorisation.
in writing. ‒ given the danger of dehp due to its negative impact on the environment and human health, i voted in favour of this objection, so that the european commission would not allow plastics containing this substance to be recycled.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this taxe report for the following reason. yes, multinationals have to pay taxes. it is not possible for small and mediumsized enterprises and workers to bear all the burdens. yes to transparency to combat tax evasion and to hold all member states accountable. however, i also say 'no' to a supranational tax union. this taxe report, with its ccctb (common consolidated charge base), is in any case a first step towards such a unified european taxation system. that's when i hang up. the solution to the problem of harmful tax practices lies with the heads of state or government meeting, not with the commission.
in writing. ‒ in response to the public debate on procedures for compulsory tax information in the member states and the luxleaks case on tax advantages for companies in luxembourg, the european parliament set up a special committee of inquiry (taxe). the report, adopted by the plenary, calls for a stronger approach and a tougher crackdown on tax avoidance. the effective tax rate of some multinational companies on profits made in european territories is close to zero percent. the fact that this is unfair to small and mediumsized enterprises is self-explanatory and damaging. i therefore welcome the call for a common corporate tax base and for more transparency in the hitherto secret agreements between eu countries and multinational companies. this is accompanied by the requirement that multinational enterprises in all sectors must disclose in their annual accounts a series of aggregated information broken down by member state and third country in which they have an establishment. however, since this country-specific reporting would be unreasonable for smes, i am pleased that parliament has adopted an epp amendment which provides for an exemption for smes from this obligation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is crucial in the fight against tax evasion by multinationals. the text sets out three measures which are essential to ensure that the fight against tax evasion by multinationals is effective. 1. the all transnational corporations, without exception, must be able to be analysed and verified. the finance ministers propose not to check the rescripts older than 5 years, it makes no sense. the european parliament also proposes to control national and international records. the european council is forgetting the international agreements. 2. the rules are only effective if there are penalties. the european parliament proposes to impose sanctions. the council does not provide for any sanctions. 3. the you can't be a judge and then leave. the council of finance ministers wishes to be the reference body responsible for auditing and regulating tax returns. it is up to the commission to play this role to ensure greater fairness. parliament, in voting on this report, has made strong commitments in favour of the fight against tax evasion. it is now essential that the council and the commission do the same.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report of the special committee on tax rulings, which i supported, was highly anticipated, as public opinion was very sensitive to the subject. the luxleaks scandal, which came to light on 5 november 2014, has raised awareness of the scale of secret deals aimed at obtaining drastic tax cuts for companies. however, it is thanks to these taxes that a state can pursue an inclusive social policy, support the investments necessary for our society, enable young people to benefit from the best possible education system, etc. it therefore seemed important at the time to set up a special committee in the european parliament to shed light on these questionable tax practices and, above all, to propose recommendations, in particular with a view to putting an end to harmful tax competition between member states. i would like to reiterate my wish that a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base should be tabled in parliament as soon as possible. this would be a first step towards more fiscal union in a europe that is suffering from its incomplete federalism.
in writing. - i want the whole luxleaks thing shed light on. the luxleaks scandal, which broke on 5 november 2014 with the publication by the international consortium of investigative journalists of nearly 28 000 pages of confidential documents establishing more than 500 private tax arrangements between the luxembourg tax authorities and more than 300 multinational companies between 2002 and 2010, revealed the extent of the use of secret agreements involving complex financial structures to obtain drastic tax reductions. in many cases, the luxembourg subsidiaries, with a turnover of several hundred million euros, have only a small presence and a limited economic activity in luxembourg.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains some recommendations made by the commission and the special committee of the european parliament in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. the report calls for a balanced, fair and transparent tax policy.
in writing. ‒ in stark contrast to her own television appearances, defending christmas carols and the christian history of europe and criticizing the dubious role of the oil states, colleague rachida dati sent this report off in a politically correct smurf. certainly, there are some concrete and good measures to prevent radicalisation, such as the separation of prisoners and the specialised training of prison staff. but anyone who believes that islamic jihadism can be countered by manipulating search engines and by telling attractive narratives and preventative messages on the net is naive. if there is an appeal for a comprehensive strategy, then for me this also means, and perhaps above all, that lessons must be drawn from the eu's failing border policy rather than from the rosy-eyed story. the powers and resources transferred to the eu in this area should be transferred back to the member states so that they can once again effectively control their borders and implement a return policy (such as the expulsion of criminal aliens, returned syrian fighters, hate-imam, etc.). it's the best form of prevention. i could not therefore approve this report.
in writing. ‒ in response to the problem of so-called 'foreign fighters', this own-initiative report proposes all the measures that can be taken to prevent radicalisation and the recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. the report focuses on prevention, particularly online, in prisons and through education. i welcome the fact that this resolution calls for both the speedy completion of an eu directive on passenger name records (pnr) and the establishment of a blacklist of european jihadists and jihadist terror suspects. the terrible attacks in paris have once again demonstrated beyond doubt that terror knows no bounds. for this reason, coordinated action and increased cooperation between member states are essential. i therefore support this resolution and expressly support full european intelligence cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the tragic events in paris require a multi-pronged response, both security and prevention. this report addresses several important aspects in this respect. in terms of prevention, he stresses the need for internet service providers to collaborate with the authorities, but also the role of education, social policies and actions in neighbourhoods. it also stressed the absolute need to increase cooperation between member states in the collection and exchange of information, both in preventative and law enforcement matters, particularly through tools such as sis ii, vis and ecris. the member states must supply these data banks in order to maximise the effectiveness of the fight against these barbaric acts. i also supported the amendment calling for the urgent reinforcement of checks at the external borders of the schengen area in the current situation. this reinforcement and the exchange of information are essential if we are to maintain the schengen area and ensure the security of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report by rachida dati on the prevention of radicalisation adopted this afternoon has enabled meps to send a clear message: yes we are at war against daesh and terrorism. and the dramatic attacks in paris 13 days ago, and the foiled attacks in brussels this weekend, show that no one is immune to religious fanaticism. i voted for all the amendments which tighten the measures and sanctions against the various actors of terrorism: recruiters and preachers of hatred, jihadist fighters and sponsors, whether they are on european territory or are about to enter it. europe must regain control of its borders. this requires a firm stance towards foreign fighters, who must be confined in institutions adapted to their return to european soil. and by expelling the hate preachers who prey on salafi mosques. other more technical aspects of counter-terrorism need to be strengthened: the criminal liability of website providers and the need to defeat the encryption of communications by terrorist organisations. because the security of european citizens is not negotiable!
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have once again underlined the urgent need for coordinated action by member states and the european union to prevent radicalisation and to better combat terrorism. the resolution i supported contains concrete proposals: the establishment of a european blacklist of jihadists and suspected jihadist terrorists (member states are asked to bring any foreign fighter under judicial control); the need for mandatory and systematic checks at the external borders of the union; the strengthening of the exchange of information between national authorities and europol in order to identify and monitor suspected terrorists, as well as the confiscation of their passports and the freezing of their financial assets; the need to strengthen intercultural dialogue in order to prevent marginalization and encourage integration. finally, in order to prevent the dissemination of hate speech and terrorist propaganda on the internet, the adopted text also provides for the immediate removal of illegal content promoting violent extremism and calls on the member states to consider legal action, including criminal prosecution, against social networks and service providers that refuse to comply with an administrative or judicial request to remove illegal or terrorist content.
in writing. ‒ terrorism and violent extremism should not be linked to any religion, country or population alone. they are often a reflection of a socioeconomic context in which low education and unequal distribution of wealth and opportunity are a breeding ground. the fight against terrorism and radicalisation must tackle the root causes of the evil. we must also dare to question our trade relations (including arms trade!) with certain countries (saudi arabia). collecting more data on all people is not the answer. we're just making the haystack bigger than it is. the screening of internet data can only be done in a clear legal context. it still doesn't exist. the report rightly calls for good cooperation between governments and internet providers to remove illegal content. we need to share best practices, provide support to families so that they can more quickly identify and address radicalization. strengthening instruments such as europol, eurojust and sis can lead to more efficient cooperation. you can't fight fear with more security alone, especially if it comes at the expense of privacy. we must ensure that human rights are respected, and we must not confuse refugees with terrorists. our basic values of democracy, freedom, equality and solidarity must above all be respected.
in writing. ‒ this is a text which has no legislative or binding force. however, we had to address the issue of radicalisation. indeed, 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations, including the ranks of the islamic state group, the nusra front and other organisations outside the european union, particularly in the middle east and north africa regions. this phenomenon is accelerating to a considerable extent. it's time to act!
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal which makes some recommendations to prevent radicalisation among our own european citizens. on november 13, 2015, horrific terrorist attacks were committed in paris by some of our own citizens. a more european coordinated approach is needed to counter the radicalisation that leads to such terror. we need to move with the times and realize that radicalization often happens through the internet or social media. i have therefore chosen to monitor internet companies more closely so that such attacks can be prevented in the future and that such terrorist organisations are not provided with a digital platform to recruit people.
in writing. ‒ health and safety at work is a major concern for society. i believe that every worker, without exception, has the right to the highest level of health protection at work. in particular, the european commission and the member states should set indicative targets for the reduction of occupational diseases and accidents at work. that is why i support the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers die in the union as a result of accidents at work and more than 150 000 die as a result of work-related diseases. in this report, which i supported, the european parliament calls on the commission to take decisive action to protect workers from the new risks of cancer and psychological disorders such as burnout and stress. this includes the review of exposure limit values in the light of new scientific knowledge, the systematic monitoring and follow-up of workers exposed to psychological risks, in particular stress or burnout, and the fight against asbestos.
in writing. despite a large number of guidelines to achieve a healthy working environment for workers, we still have 4,000 fatal accidents at work every year and the number of fatal work-related diseases continues to peak at 150,000 per year. continuous evaluation and adjustment of risk prevention measures and the inducement of behavioural changes for all actors involved in the work process therefore remain a priority. at the same time, the labour market in europe is undergoing major changes. people will work longer in the future, change jobs more often, and build more flexibility into their careers. ensuring well-being and health at work adds value to society as a whole and contributes to people's active and healthy ageing. in this context, we must continue to take concrete preventive measures to eliminate as far as possible the risk of accidents and illnesses among workers. in addition to continuing to address chronic work-related diseases, new challenges such as psychological and social risks in the workplace must be carefully identified and preventive action taken to achieve safe and healthy working environments for all european workers, both physically and mentally. after all, good health is a fundamental right in europe and prevention remains the best approach.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers in the union die as a result of accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases is over 150 000 every year. the european parliament has therefore enthusiastically supported the commission's proposal on the european union's strategic framework for health and safety at work. the text concerns the 217 million european workers, and the question is whether labour regulations are an essential part of the legislative activity of the european institutions. this strategy is timely and will be able to respond to the important challenges that are arising: better enforcement of existing rules, improvement of the prevention of work-related diseases, and this while taking into account the ageing of the european workforce. in concrete terms, this will include further consolidating national strategies, helping small and micro enterprises to comply with the rules with assessments, simplifying legislation, providing better statistics to assess the issues at stake and finally strengthening coordination with international organisations. an effective strategy, in the long term, for the benefit of the worker.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers in the eu lose their lives in the course of their work. more than 150,000 people die from work-related diseases. every effort must be made to prevent such human tragedies from happening again and to adapt legislation to the realities on the ground in order to ensure its proper application. if there is one issue on which the 'triple a social' targeted by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, depends, it is the health and safety of european workers. in my view, the simplification of our regulations, which aims to make european union legislation simpler and more effective (the refit programme drawn up by the european commission), cannot in any way weaken the rules governing health and safety at work. i am also convinced that it is with the help of the actors on the ground that we must define the best policies to be implemented. better working conditions, and therefore a reduction in accidents and illnesses, benefit not only workers, whose physical integrity is preserved, but also social security systems, which are thus strengthened, and the competitiveness of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ after months of delay, the european commission presented its new strategy for health and safety at work 2014-2020. it outlines three major challenges: implementing existing health and safety rules, preventing work-related diseases and ageing our eu workforce. the report is the ep's official response to this and was reinforced by several green amendments focusing on 'better prevention than cure'. we call on the commission to come up with a comprehensive strategy on occupational exposure to endocrine disruptors. we're asking for recognition of the risks associated with stress at work, including burnout. the existing directives on health and safety at work should not be undermined by the european commission's refit programme to simplify legislation, which could also have negative consequences for the health and safety of workers. to help smes reduce their administrative burden without compromising the health and safety of their workers, new tools are being developed to facilitate risk assessment to comply with legislation. i support this report because it puts the health and safety of workers first. that's the key.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. n-va fully endorses the importance of a high level of protection of human health. in doing so, union action may support and complement national policies, but should respect the policy autonomy of the member states. the present report does not, unfortunately, sufficiently respect this division of powers. the nva delegation, on the other hand, fully welcomes the encouragement of the exchange of good practice, the call for consistent and transparent rules that should make it easier for companies to comply with them, and the special attention paid to smes.
in writing. - i voted for the text. health and safety at work is a fundamental interest of society and an investment that has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, improves the sustainability of social security systems and allows people to work in good health until the legal retirement age. as a reminder, occupational accidents and diseases represent a considerable burden on society and improving occupational health and safety in europe can contribute to economic recovery and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy, for which little progress has been made so far towards the 75% employment rate for 20-64 year olds.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this plan because better well-being and health at work contribute to a better society as a whole. we all have to work longer in europe because of ageing. this strategic plan can, through prevention, ensure that we nevertheless age in a more active and healthier way.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i do not want to repeat the figures, you have mentioned them. indeed, today in europe, one in three women is a victim of violence. behind these women, these numbers, there are human beings. these are our daughters, our sisters, your wives, our colleagues, these are the people around us. one in three women! it is true that if we turn around, it means that the person on my right, or the one on my left, is certainly, has been or will be a victim of violence. should we talk about forms of violence? we know these forms of violence: they are physical, psychological, economic and sexual. the height of violence, iratxe said, is femicide. seven women a day now die of femicide, which is simply dying because you're a woman. these are genital mutilation, human trafficking and sexual exploitation. we just want to say, enough is enough! that is enough, because it is unbearable to see that today in europe we are giving in to this kind of discrimination. article 8 of the lisbon treaty simply says that we must guarantee equality between men and women in europe. you are the guardian of these treaties in the european commission. we simply ask you to be able to implement these treaties, not to make plans and steps. it is sometimes easier to defend the right to property than simply to defend the right to life. we therefore ask you to defend the right to life for everyone and for the 50% of the population in europe.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, violence against women is not only a women’s issue. gender violence is also a men’s issue and, above all, a sad and a shameful reality. as has already been indicated in different interventions, at some point in their life, one in three women and girls experience physical or sexual violence from men. most shockingly, almost half of this violence is committed by the partner of the victim, causing 2 500 deaths every year in the eu. that is seven women each day losing their lives because of sexual assault, domestic violence, relationship abuse or female genital mutilation. let us recognise that, for too long, men have avoided the issue of violence against women and often cast it aside as being just a women’s issue, and i think that is the problem. as long as gender violence is seen as a women’s issue, men disconnect and we – men – must break the violence. impunity for committing violence against women should be a thing of the past and justice needs to prevail for all those women who are victims. for that to happen, i would say to the commissioner that i think we need an eu-wide strategy to combat violence against women. many eu countries do indeed have laws today protecting women against such violence, but there are also many others that do not have them and which could do much better. the istanbul convention, initiated by the council of europe, in fact obliges countries to fully address violence against women in all its forms, to prevent it, to protect the victims and to prosecute the perpetrators, but so far the reality is that the istanbul convention has only been ratified by 12 member states of the european union. that is why i think we need to do something special, namely eu accession – the accession of the whole european union – to the istanbul convention so as to close the loopholes in european and national legislation, to protect women far better and certainly to condemn countries with blood on their hands. so zero tolerance in the fight against gender violence is, in fact, the only way to address it, and we – not only women, but men and women – must unite and speak out, and that means break the silence. (applause)
in writing. on this international day for the elimination of violence against women, the results of the latest european survey are shocking: 33 per cent of european women, 36 per cent of belgian women and 47 per cent of french women have been victims of physical or sexual violence. the international convention of istanbul, which would make the fight against violence against women more effective and provide for coherent legislation, has been ratified by only 8 of the 28 member states. the inaction of certain states makes them accomplices. 33% of women aged 15 and over are victims of physical or sexual violence in europe, 45% even if psychological violence is also taken into account. with 36% in belgium or 44% in france, are these countries more prone to male violence? "not necessarily! well, these numbers are based on the number of women who eventually come forward about the horrors they've experienced. the countries with the highest numbers are often those where victims dare to speak out and break the law of silence", explains the ps mep.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i have mixed feelings about the valletta summit. and i would say to mrs mogherini: helping and cooperating with africa – yes, but outsourcing our problems to africa – no. not at all! i happen to know – and i gave the figure a few minutes ago – that the estimation is that there are between 12 and 15 million refugees in africa – between 12 and 15 million! from time to time they do a better job there than we do. in ethiopia, to give that example only, nearly 300 000 refugees have come into ethiopia from neighbouring countries since the beginning of this year. so helping them, cooperating with them – yes. but seeing them and saying ‘oh it is now your problem and you have to stop migration’, i say that is not serious. we have to take our own responsibilities. i think at the summit maybe it would be better to do other things rather than trying to discuss readmission agreements that never happen. i have negotiated readmission with prime ministers – not one but at least three or four readmission agreements – and they were signed but never implemented in reality. it is a waste of time. for example, i see this afternoon jean louis borloo. jean louis borloo is out of politics now, but he has started a very important initiative – ‘energy for africa’ – to try, with private and public funding, to build up something that is absolutely needed for that continent: a huge investment in energy so that every family and every company in africa has this possibility of having an energy supply. that is the way forward, not outsourcing our problems; not saying: ‘ah, i tried to take them back’. the way forward is to help them not only by public means, but also, for example, with initiatives like energy for africa, where there is a huge programme that is key for the future of that continent. the second thing that we can do and which we do not do – and i am very pleased that the commission has now published a scoreboard – is to simply do what we have said. implement what we have pledged. we are the champions of pledging worldwide, but we are maybe the last in the ranking when it comes to paying. there is an enormous difference in europe between pledging and paying. i shall give you a list i have taken from the scoreboard – and i am pleased that the commission has started with the scoreboard. we have a shortfall of eur 1.7 billion in the african trust fund. pledged but not paid. we have a shortfall of a half a billion euros in the syria trust fund. promised but not paid. then, concerning the refugees: there are five countries which have taken refugees from italy and greece – not more than that. we have been discussing this for months here, but there are only five countries which are doing their job. there are 129 refugees relocated from the 39 600 that have to be relocated from italy; well, 130 have been relocated. the same in greece. there are 66 400 refugees – or more, naturally – there who are officially to be relocated. there have been 30 relocated. it is not i who am saying that, it is the scoreboard of the commission. maybe it is not all the fault of luxembourg, certainly not. i am a very big champion of the luxembourg presidency, but it is your responsibility to put that to the council. finally, let us work on a migration strategy in the european union, which we do not have, and also on this european border and coastguard. i hope in the december council that this european border and coastguard can finally be decided by the heads of state and government.
the european union has been so strange to the world, so utterly deprived of all common sense, that it opened our borders to the world in our place. this is further illustrated by the news that arrived a few days ago, namely that between the terrorist attacks in paris and the state of siege in brussels, moroccan residents are now buying air tickets to turkey in droves. in turkey they rent a boat and take the balkan route, the european union route to germany, the netherlands and of course last but not least to belgium. no question of asylum or fleeing war. just a matter of a better life. the european union is also in favour of the free market in morocco. the european union's authorities, the majority here in parliament, have held another useless and unfortunately unbelievable summit in a long series of migration summits with an abracadabra of proposals and politically correct newspeak as a result and nothing more. just more and more immigration. last time you went to the fire and sword to sink the ships of the traffickers. this time - with all due respect for your efforts, commissioner - you were going to give african leaders, dictators, colleagues in africa a better understanding. ridiculously common! the problem with your successive peaks is that, like the apprentice wizard in the disney cartoon of the same name, you lose control of the excesses of free movement of persons and continue to flounder on the basis of the same concept over and over again. you are also ruling against the wishes of your own people. only the member states can try to regain the confidence of the people. you failed. you've brought us to the brink of the abyss. and you're no longer credible and you're no longer equipped with the necessary authority. in other words, i would urge you to back off modestly and leave it to the member states.
at the valletta summit on migration, heads of state from european and african countries discussed the refugee problem. the result is a joint action plan. the fight against the influx of illegal immigrants is rightly a top priority, as are returns and expulsions. it was also agreed that greece and italy would improve their asylum procedures. they would also increase their reception capacity. but these two eu countries have made many empty promises in the past on the registration and reception of asylum seekers. the reality is that the asylum crisis has been raging for over a year. but we still have no functioning hotspots on the eu's external borders. greece and italy have already received many millions of euros, but still barely register migrants. this afternoon we voted on a new investment package of one and a half billion euro, partly to address these pain points. but we wonder if the money will be put to good use. mr tsipras and mr renzi, it is time to act. no more excuses!
"blue card" question. what is it? i have already indicated this a few times, because i have heard a lot of points raised here, which suggest that the solution is not in europe, whereas we think that the solution is in more europe. madam, you just said in your speech: we need less schengen. my question to you is: do you really think we can solve the problem by returning to guarding our own borders? i think the solution lies in more europe, better protection of the external borders and better european intelligence.
mr president, i would have liked to welcome the results of the valletta summit, but unfortunately i have not been able to do so. the final declaration is full of good intentions, but the action plan that concludes it is in reality a heterogeneous package that juxtaposes rather than integrates the demands of some and the reluctance of others. in short, europeans disappointed, africans frustrated. the balance sheet is weak. and frankly, i cannot see how the creation of a €1.8 billion trust fund deserves the dithyramby praise of some. this is a paltry sum compared with the actual and future needs of the african continent. it is paltry compared to the 20 billion we are already injecting into african development each year. in general, we do little for countries that are managing themselves, that are improving themselves and that are really helping us. i am thinking in particular of morocco and tunisia. on the other hand, we are going to give three billion to a country, turkey, which allows smugglers to operate freely, which shamelessly profits from daesh's oil traffic, which bombs the kurds and which, by shooting down a russian plane, is only assuming the creation of a grand coalition against daesh. there's a lot to be concerned about.
for the ecr group the situation under president nkurunziza is unworthy of a modern society. he is convinced that he deserves a third presidential term and by doing so he is actually going against the will of his people, who elected and voted in 2005 for an inclusive and democratic constitution. in the capital's popular districts, fighting is taking place between supporters and opponents of the president, and the hateful messages of burundian leaders are adding fuel to the fire. the crisis is seriously affecting burundi's fledgling democracy, fragile peace and difficult development. the situation is dire for the whole great lakes region. burundi is just a dot on the african map, surrounded by congo, rwanda and tanzania. the refugee flows increase the humanitarian pressure on neighbouring countries, resulting in increased ethnic tensions. i am particularly drawing attention to the problems of the refugee camps. the onset of the rainy season in tanzania threatens to flood the tents and toilets in the camps, with all the consequences. and a new influx of refugees threatens to make the situation even worse. we cannot repeat the mistakes we made with the syrian refugees. we must help to provide the burundian refugees with a decent reception in the region, with a view to their return later. international players have seen burundi as too much and too long too little of geostrategic importance. too small, too little influence. diplomatic and military efforts were focused mainly on rwanda, uganda and the congo. as far as i'm concerned, a miscalculation. i hear that the high representative is concerned now and that has indeed translated into action. i also agree with you, mr schmit, that we must advocate a dialogue through international and african mediation. but i would also like to draw attention to the importance of a review of european development policy. my government in belgium, but also those in the netherlands and germany are showing the way by suspending development aid to the country in part, because we know that a large part of international aid is lost to corruption. let's both choose reorientation.
at a time like today when virtually all our international attention is on terrorism and the fight against terrorism, we must not forget the situation elsewhere. that is why i am glad that burundi is on the agenda here today. in april of this year i warned you, mr president, of the debacle in burundi. we see with sad eyes that the entire region is once again poisoned by the ambitions of one man. you said it yourself: many human rights violations, many refugees, many deaths. it's not clear where the country is going. the leaders use irresponsible hate speech as lightning bolts. fortunately, the population is smart enough so far not to react to it. but the tens of thousands of refugees are a reality that also burdens neighbouring countries. the regional gunpowder can explode quickly, i said in april, and i also warned then of an imminent genocide due to preparations under way. i want to make this explicit again today. mr. secretary, thank you very much for the update. the un security council has clearly taken a stand for the people and against the leaders who cling to power. the african union is also a partner in the process of establishing a genuine inter-burundian dialogue. the eu, as burundi's largest donor, can and should be a perfect mediator. the talks between the european union and burundi under the cotonou agreement must urgently lead to a political solution. we are asking, mr minister, for more security here in europe. i would also like to see peace and security returned to the people of burundi.
mr president, since last june the situation in burundi has only worsened, with daily repression and violence, and we have seen the latest decision by the minister of justice to close the bank accounts of most of the ngos now active in burundi. this is of course a matter of concern to a large extent to the burundian population, but it is also a matter of concern to the stability of the great lakes region. so i have three questions. firstly, the european union has opened the consultation procedure provided for in article 96 of the cotonou agreement. she took targeted sanctions. what tools does the union still have at its disposal to try to restore a situation which would not be the dictatorship we are experiencing today? the second question concerns the budgetary support granted to the burundian state. how can we redirect this aid towards civil society, given that it is being weakened on a daily basis? the third question concerns the situation in the camps in the neighbouring countries of burundi. more than 200,000 people are now refugees in these camps. how can we help these populations?
i am grateful to you for the work you have done. we have a lot of influence from the court of auditors. but this is the 17th time i've done this exercise, and i have to say that there's been absolutely no progress. i take a deep breath. the error rate remains high, 4.4 percent. the commissioner said just now in the debate - and she welcomed that - that the error rate remains stable. but it also means that in almost one in 20 cases of audits by the court of auditors, errors are discovered! i know that is not fraud, but it is wheat on the mill of eurosceptics. we know that the basic problem lies with the member states. eighty per cent of our resources are used in shared management and it is the member states that most often knew or could have known that mistakes were made. so, commissioner, i ask you plainly and clearly: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to give us a statement on the situation in the member states. will you appoint them and will you also take action to recover the funds wrongly paid effectively and adequately?
i would strongly recommend that anyone who dares to look at the european union with a sufficiently critical eye and is not hindered by the ideological blackmail that the supporters of the european union use to refer to concepts such as peace and prosperity - and i am one of them. the walk through the forest of an unnumbered number of aid, guarantee and investment funds, which are full of billions - in my view flemish taxpayers' money - and for which we, especially flemings, get little in return, is a remarkable walk. belgium ranks third among the 28 member states in terms of the contribution per inhabitant. my party also calculated that because of the transfer situation within belgium, no one pays more to the european union than the flemish. more than four percent of all that money did not end up where it was supposed to in 2014, twice as much as the court of auditors deemed acceptable. the smell of arbitrariness and of you-and-me errorism that rises from the report says enough. anyone who is not too damaged to face the truth must have read the report.
author. the terror of daesh is spreading in parts of syria and iraq, but the cancer is also spreading in afghanistan. the horrific killings of members of the hazara minority show that the situation is becoming increasingly unsafe. there seems to be an alliance between the taliban and daesh. they find each other in total disgust with a pluralistic afghanistan. this evil cannot deal with religious, ethnic and cultural minorities. they reject women's rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. but the people are afraid of the jihadists. last wednesday, in kabul, thousands of people took to the streets to express feelings of fear and disgust. but they're also targeting the afghan government of president ghani. it fails to protect its own people. corruption and rivalry between the various clans undermine the credibility and effectiveness of the government. too often, loyalty is bought at the expense of human lives, at the expense of human rights. the unity government in kabul must change its mind and the union must help to ensure that this happens. there is a conference on afghanistan in brussels next year. in the present circumstances, a strong european commitment will be essential.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to focus on land grabbing, while sharing the views expressed by all the members on the political situation, because the trade agreement with the european union entitled 'everything but arms' allows access to the european market free of all taxes and quotas. of course, this agreement has dramatic effects on the local population, particularly because of the practice of forcibly driving peasants from their land in order to allocate it, through the mechanism of economic land concessions, to large companies. the british sugar company tate & lyle is probably one of the main culprits. tens of thousands of hectares are being taken from farmers in the name of this agreement in favour of multinational companies. so, should we continue on this path? i asked the commission, and i was told that there would be a mid-term review on november 21, 2017 "blablabla". all of this is "blabla". commissioner, i have a high regard for you because you are one of the commissioners who puts people before business. so it is not after 2017 that we will have to react, but it is here and now that we must take measures to monitor these agreements and perhaps correct them.
in writing. ‒ wto members should urgently conclude the long-running doha round by fulfilling their development mandate and making balanced but ambitious progress, because there is much at stake. the multilateral trade rules could be strengthened and imbalances in the trade structure could be corrected. i have therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution. the eu is also called upon to play a leading role in the wto negotiations and to achieve greater democratic legitimacy and transparency through greater parliamentary participation in the wto.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which, ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference, stresses in particular the importance of taking full account of the specific needs and interests of low-income developing countries and ldcs in the negotiations and the need to ensure that the principle of special and differential treatment is integrated at each stage of the negotiations to take account of the varying levels of development of wto members. it considered that, in order to be effective, the provisions on special and differential treatment should be more precise, subject to periodic review and applied in a targeted manner to meet the needs of developing countries and ldcs which need it most.
in writing. this positive vote gives a new impetus to the doha development round launched in 2001. this is a win/win cycle for developing countries as well as for developed countries. it aims to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct current imbalances in the trading system by putting the needs and interests of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), at the centre of the negotiations. in a globalised world, wealth cannot be claimed if it is not shared, if millions of people live in extreme poverty. on the eve of the 10th wto ministerial conference, to be held in nairobi from 15 to 18 december 2015, it is a responsible act on the part of the european parliament to position itself for the relaunch and final conclusion of the doha development round. the conclusion of this doha round is a vital imperative that all wto members must put at the top of their political agenda in order to achieve an ambitious, comprehensive, balanced and realistic outcome in the very near future.
in writing. ‒ in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015 (for the first time in an african country!), the resolution i supported stresses the importance of taking full account of the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries in the negotiations, but also considers it necessary to have a clear definition of these countries and emerging economies. the text also supports structural reform of the wto to better ensure an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system that takes greater account of the diversity of economic actors, such as smes and micro-innovation enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, in particular because i fully support the idea that a structural reform of the wto is necessary to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on common and applied rules, which takes greater account of the diversity of economic actors, such as smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru as a decisive new step towards an alliance with important countries, which share common convictions and a high rate of growth, in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador and recognises the important benefits that will result from this for ecuador's exports to the union. this agreement will stimulate and diversify trade and investment for the benefit of both parties and will accelerate the economic and social development of ecuador. it also called on the partners concerned to work swiftly towards the effective implementation of the proposed action plans on human rights, the environment and labour.
in writing. in 2012, the european union and its member states signed a trade agreement with colombia and peru. this agreement covers both trade and development issues in order to ensure a stable environment for sustainable trade. the accession of ecuador, an important partner of the union, to this agreement will facilitate cooperation between these three countries and the european union. ecuador shares with peru and colombia common values and promising growth dynamics. this accession is therefore a decisive step for the regional integration of the latin american subregion. i welcome the vote in favour of this resolution. this is a strong signal from parliament to encourage the four partners to go further in strengthening the competitiveness and market access of small and mediumsized enterprises in these three countries and in the union. the agreement will stimulate and diversify trade and investment for the benefit of all four parties. this is an important step to accelerate the economic and social development of ecuador and its two neighbours.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament voted in favour of the proposed accession of ecuador to the multilateral free trade agreement between the union, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. i did however abstain on the final vote, but i voted in favour of amendments calling on the ecuadorian government to tackle problems such as child labour, women's rights and deforestation. moreover, as ecuador is one of the world's largest producers of bananas, i also particularly supported the request to the commission to activate the safeguard mechanism which suspends the exemption from duties on imports of bananas from ecuador into the european market if they exceed a certain volume deemed harmful to the eu's banana-producing regions, both economically and in terms of employment. the text of the resolution also calls on the commission to "actively pressure" ecuador to comply with the same obligations that colombia and peru were bound by under the roadmap on environmental protection, workers' rights and human rights, which accompanied the multi-party agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text but i cannot guarantee that this will still be the case in the next phase. i take this opportunity to denounce the lack of improvement in the situation in colombia with regard to labour rights, social rights and fundamental rights in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. i am convinced that this will benefit ecuador's exports to the eu and further boost trade and investment on both sides. i think this is a clear win-win situation for all parties involved.
in writing. ‒ given the interconnectedness of animal welfare, animal health and public health, and the desire of eu citizens to be able to make better informed choices as consumers, i welcome this resolution, which calls for an eu-wide strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2016-2020. i regret, however, that the text does not advocate a ban on animal testing for budgetary purposes, as is already the case in the cosmetics sector. i also complain that the production of goose and duck liver does not call for an end to the practice of force feeding by metal pipes (the practice of stuffing). that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which urges the commission to evaluate the current strategy and develop a new ambitious animal protection and welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020 in order to build on the work of the previous strategy and to sustain a strong regulatory framework for animal welfare in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy is a bit of a missed opportunity. the nva delegation did support the resolution in the final vote because it is a step forward, but we lack real ambition. we would have liked to see the commercial transport of animals limited to 8 hours. we have been working for this for a long time and it is a pity that a majority was not found for this. we also lack the clear will to finally achieve harmonized identification and registration requirements for pets. however, this would be a powerful tool to curb the illegal trade in puppies. we preferred a ban on animal-friendly practices, such as the annual traditional hunting of deer in the danish faroe islands, and a ban on the controversial bullfights. the citizens are expressing their outrage and disapproval in large numbers. the demand for a european action plan to combat illegal trade in wild plants and animals has also not been met. unfortunately, stronger enforcement of the ban on illegal bird hunting is still outstanding. in short, i cannot conceal my disappointment.
in writing. in this resolution, parliament calls for the development of a new and ambitious animal protection and welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020, while implementing the remaining themes of the previous strategy. european citizens attach great importance to the welfare of their animals. whether it is the protection of farm animals or companion animals, animal lovers and consumers want animals to be kept in the best possible conditions. in recent years, important steps have been taken to optimise animal welfare, particularly in the agricultural sector. it is therefore important to include the reciprocity of animal welfare standards in the negotiation of bilateral and international trade agreements and to include in agricultural policy sufficient means to avoid relocation to countries and regions where less stringent standards are applied. this resolution is the starting point for the development of a new strategy on animal welfare. a european opinion poll will also be held in 2016. this public consultation will be of great help in defining european animal welfare policy.
in writing. ‒ as a co-signer of the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016 to 2020, i note that the plenary supported, by a very large majority of 542 votes in favour, a pragmatic approach to this very important issue. the level of animal welfare in the european union is one of the highest in the world. it should also be noted that further measures to improve animal welfare are being developed as the european parliament is currently involved in negotiations to consolidate legislation on animal health, zootechnical conditions or organic production. however, i think that the text should have been strengthened. on such sensitive issues as the protection of live animals during commercial transport, the fight against illegal wildlife trade, compliance with the birds directive and the ban on the captive keeping of cetaceans, the european parliament will have to be more ambitious in the future. the european union must more generally reverse the intensive farming system, which is bad for animals and the environment. and the question of phasing out cage systems, replacing them with practices that meet the animals' ethical needs, must no longer be taboo.
in writing. ‒ i supported and voted for the text of this resolution, which urges the commission to evaluate the current strategy and develop a new ambitious strategy for animal protection and welfare over the period 2016-2020 and to maintain a rigorous regulatory framework for animal welfare in all member states. animal welfare standards should in no case be lowered for reasons of administrative simplification. the commission is invited to: be more ambitious by taking into account the reciprocity of animal welfare standards; promote animal welfare in third countries by requiring equivalent welfare standards for imported animals and products, accompanied by strict controls. i also voted in favour of more ambitious amendments, such as the one asking the commission to guarantee funding for scientific research into less cruel slaughter practices and to finance alternative methods of testing which do not use animals in order to avoid subjecting animals to significant suffering and to abolish animal testing as soon as possible. i also supported an amendment calling on the commission to recommend that member states ban the keeping of cetaceans in captivity.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's approach to animal welfare is shameful. the commitments made in 2011 expire at the end of 2015 and are far from being implemented. some agreements have barely been transposed into law by the member states. for example, in some member states, animal transport exceeds the 8 hour limit (29 hours) and is not controlled. figures also show that 15 member states failed to eliminate battery chickens and 17 member states still allow soapboxes. norms have not been incorporated into trade agreements, and both the council and the commission blocked the initiative to make dog chipping compulsory. the commission is nevertheless confident that everything will be fine. the resolution which has just been put to the vote is a missed opportunity. although the content was broadly agreed at the intergroup working party on animal welfare, the main groups have withdrawn their tails. instead of calling for a new strategy with binding agreements and clear commitments, the main complaint was about high administrative burdens at the expense of animal welfare. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - i co-signed and voted for this resolution. we call on the commission to ensure an up-to-date, comprehensive and clear legislative framework which ensures the full application of the provisions of article 13 tfeu. i would remind you, however, that animal welfare standards should not be lowered for the sake of administrative simplification. the text emphasises that these objectives are not mutually exclusive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a new animal welfare strategy. as an animal lover, i feel that this resolution sends a very clear signal to the commission that we expect more clear measures from the european parliament to ensure better animal welfare in our european union.
in writing. ‒ the united nations estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas. 250 million of them are under five years old, and they are denied the basic right to education. 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are most affected by emergencies and protracted crises and are at risk of dropping out of the education system. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution on education for children in emergency situations and ongoing crises.
in writing. ‒ according to the united nations, one billion children live in conflict zones, of which 250 million are under 5 years old and are deprived of their basic right to education. i therefore naturally supported this resolution which stresses the importance of universal quality public education as a catalyst for development, which has a positive impact on actions in the fields of health, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. as the report argues, education is a powerful tool, indispensable to create a sense of normalcy, ensure awareness of rights and help children, adolescents and young people to overcome trauma, reintegrate into society after conflict and acquire the skills needed to rebuild society and promote peacebuilding and reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution calling on member states to support the objective of increasing the share of eu humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4%. according to united nations estimates, one billion children live in areas affected by conflict, emergencies, and protracted crises. a very large number of them are deprived of their basic right to education or are at risk of having their education interrupted. the resolution also calls on all host countries to ensure that refugee children have full access to education, preferably through their integration into national education systems. i consider this to be a top priority because education not only helps to ensure a higher level of integration but also helps to break the cycle of violence. education is the only hope for reducing the risk of ending up with a young population, unemployed, causing social upheaval or falling back into a vicious cycle of violence. continuous, lifelong learning will also limit opportunities for young people to become involved in armed groups or to engage in extremism.
in writing. education is a fundamental and inalienable right for every child, regardless of ethnic origin, nationality or social status. yet, millions of children living in conflict and humanitarian crises are deprived of education. today, about half of the world's schoolchildren live in conflict zones, and 10 million children are refugees. their future is uncertain and their chances of accessing school are very low. i welcome the adoption of the resolution which aims to recall the duty to ensure education for children in emergency situations and long-term crises. education is an integral part of these children's survival, social well-being and physical, emotional, moral and social development. it is crucial to step up support for child education programmes in conflict areas, with particular attention to vulnerable groups, in particular girls, children with disabilities and young children. i agree with the call by parliament for all actors to increase and diversify funding instruments and to make this a top priority in humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which, in view of the protracted nature of the current crises, calls on all humanitarian actors (with the european union at the forefront) to ensure that children's education is an integral part of their intervention by using the action points as soon as a crisis has arisen and by ensuring that sufficient funds are allocated to them. the text of the resolution also calls for special attention to be paid to the most vulnerable groups such as girls, disabled children and poor children.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. she recalls that according to the united nations, one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of them under the age of five, and are deprived of their basic right to education. an estimated 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are affected by emergencies and long-term crises and are therefore at risk of dropping out of school, and some 37 million children are out of school in primary and lower secondary education in countries experiencing crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this plan because education is a fundamental and inalienable right for every child, regardless of his or her background. the promotion of education as a human right and the attainment of education in spite of the conflicts in certain regions must be a priority of our humanitarian aid, since education is still, in my view, the best guarantee of a decent life.
in writing. ‒ complex procedures for applying for and managing eu funding from structural and cohesion policy funds sometimes lead to a complete deterrent for potential applicants. the actual funds available will not be called up. the policy thus fails to achieve its purpose, which is to motivate successful application and management of eu funding. i therefore welcome the resolution initiated by the committee on regional development and adopted by the european parliament as a whole, which once again draws attention to this problem and calls, inter alia, for simplification guidelines and roadmaps from the european commission to raise awareness among member states and their regions to reduce the administrative burden and over-regulation associated with public procurement. at the same time, it is essential that all, i.e. the european commission and the member states and their regions, optimise their monitoring, control and reporting activities in order to remove the current bottlenecks, while maintaining a proper balance between simplification on the one hand and the prevention of irregularities, such as fraud, on the other.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution on reducing the administrative burden in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the simplification of control activities would save the beneficiaries a heavy administrative burden. in general, entities applying for grants do not have the possibility to successfully manage union grants. so it is understandable that the more work they do, the more they will suffer. in addition, it results in direct costs for the beneficiaries, thus reducing the impact of union funding on investments.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution on simplifying and improving the effectiveness of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 which i supported, the european parliament asks the commission to introduce detailed guidelines on simplification in order to better target administrative burdens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions and bodies. this is a request which was addressed by the ministers responsible for regional policy earlier this month. the adopted text calls on the member states to respect the deadline of 31 december 2015 in accordance with the rules of the regulation on common provisions (article 122 (3)) for adopting e-cohesion, which allows the exchange of information by electronic means between beneficiaries and authorities responsible for regional programmes, with a view to shortening the time between the submission of applications and the receipt of grants. finally, as another flagship request, we called for greater use of the multi-fund approach, which allows beneficiaries to combine several funds in a single project, under the arrangements set out in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am in favour of the commission introducing detailed simplification directives to raise awareness in member states and their regions of the need to eliminate, or at least to significantly reduce, the administrative burden and over-regulation at national and local level on procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities, including by avoiding frequent changes in the applicable rules, simplifying language and standardising procedures, and focusing the union budget on tangible results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for greater simplification and efficiency of cohesion policy. as a liberal, i am naturally in favour of removing the numerous bureaucratic obstacles and administrative burdens. this will only benefit cohesion policy and its potential beneficiaries.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i want to continue where mr kamal ended. cooperation with turkey – yes; outsourcing our problems – no. and let us be honest: the impression that we have is the opposite. a visa-free regime, eur 3 billion, and speeding up the accession negotiations in return for some turkish cooperation in helping to manage the refugee crisis. i have to tell you, mr president, that it is shameful that nothing was said about human rights in turkey, freedom of the press in turkey, or the state of democracy in turkey in the written conclusions. that is the failure of this summit, in my opinion. let us be honest, the situation in turkey is becoming worse and worse. i think there is no other country worldwide where there are more journalists in prison than in turkey at the moment. i have nothing against the search for better cooperation with turkey to manage the refugee crisis, but at least have the honesty and the courage to talk about the problems in turkey. do not just say ‘ok, we shall not talk about them anymore in the conclusions’. it was only at the end, in the press conference, that mr tusk said three or four words about it, not in the written conclusions. that brings me to the key point. not outsourcing our problems, but solving our problems means that we have to fix our external borders, our european border and coastguard. what i see is that we are not capable of doing so. greece, especially, is saying they cannot participate, because greece is the only country for the moment blocking a decision in the council that has to be taken in a few weeks in december. it is blocking it because it is a question of sovereignty. it is not allowed for foreigners to come to help us to protect our borders. well maybe we could invite mr tsipras a second time to this parliament, not to talk about the economy, and not to talk about this problem, but to talk about his lack of will for european solutions to the problems that we are facing at the moment. i was not shocked when, this morning, i read that some countries want to push greece out of schengen. well, the external border of greece is not a greek border: it is a european border. it is not a german border, a belgian border, or a french border, and that is the key. that is what you have to achieve now, with or without mr tsipras. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– very briefly, it is precisely to tackle human trafficking, to tackle these criminal gangs and to help the greek government that we want this european border guard and coastguard. the fundamental problem that we have created is to start with schengen and not to have a common border system. that cannot work. if you have a common area with free mobility of people and travel, then you also need to have a common border guard and coastguard. the best way to tackle these criminal gangs is to start with a european instrument.
on behalf of the group of the european right trash is cash. the expression comes from you, mr timmermans. that was a good call. better and more sustainable use of resources is essential. we have been delayed for a year and a half and i will of course study the proposal in detail, but i have some questions and criticisms, particularly on the waste legislation. the first. you said it yourself: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states. for example, while in flanders we recycle 65 per cent of our household waste, some member states dump 80 per cent of it. full implementation of existing waste legislation is therefore a necessary first step. but what efforts will the commission make to achieve this? the second. i understand that there is a need for tailor-made measures, but i do not think that lowering the level of ambition from 70 to 65 per cent for recycling targets for household waste and providing deferrals to a whole range of member states is such a good choice. alternative solutions to get everyone on board are possible, e.g. through twinning projects, formulating intermediate objectives. the third. tailor-made measures are needed not only for member states in difficulty but also for frontier regions such as my own region. how does the commission intend to encourage this in practice and ensure that innovation is given every opportunity? finally, a ban on landfilling of recyclable materials should form the basis of a circular economy. it is not clear to me how much the commission is making this difficult.
in writing. the circular economy proposals the commission has put forward today are a disgrace. key elements that were present in the original barroso commission proposal are missing, such as the objective to use resources 30% more efficiently compared to 2014 and to follow up this through the european semester. the objectives for recycling waste are also weaker in terms of both content and timing, while the commission's impact assessment clearly shows that the stronger the objectives, the greater the economic benefit for each member state. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the previous commission originally proposed a non-binding target of reducing food waste by 30% by 2020. the european parliament called for a commitment to reduce food waste by 30% by 2025. now timmermans comes up with "a general commitment to stop food waste", without a timetable or binding targets? quid ambition with such vague terms? unfortunately, this new proposal will not put us on the path to sustainable development unless the circular economy concept contributes to an effective and absolute reduction in the consumption of raw materials.
in writing. we are consuming more and more, producing more and more, while the planet's resources are dwindling day by day: this must stop, if we are not to seriously handicap the lives of our children and grandchildren. to prevent this waste of food, products, energy or materials, the european parliament has already called for ambitious and binding european legislation. more efficient waste management and improved product sustainability must once again become european priorities. reuse, repair or transform: these are the three key words of the circular economy, without which our society has no future. the circular economy must become a real european priority. preserving natural resources, consuming sustainably and improving people's quality of life rather than behaving like reckless children plundering the planet: this is the challenge that europe and the world must face. these changes must be systemic, because we can only survive if we make profound changes in our regulations, our economies, our social model and our education.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the development of plans for long-term sustainable urban mobility is important to achieve the objectives that the european union has set for itself in terms of co2 emissions, noise pollution, air pollution and accident reduction. it is also estimated that by 2050 almost 82% of the eu's citizens will live in urban areas. it is also in this context that the development of sustainable urban mobility plans should and must be one of the guiding principles of project financing in europe. i would encourage member states to review their strategies in this area. thank you.
mr president, i thank the luxembourg presidency, mr schmit and mrs mutsch for the effort and energy they have devoted to the question of equality between men and women. we have heard about the 21% average participation of women in european boards. unfortunately, of these 21%, as has been said, particularly by mrs le grip, some countries have scores of over 30% and others of 2.5%. now, we see that, when there are legislative procedures, when there are laws to go towards this equality, well it works. so this means that there is discrimination where there is no law. that there is discrimination, that there is inequality, that there is an unwillingness to have women on boards. the question i simply put is this: the commission has done its job, parliament has done its job. we want to see a binding procedure. i simply wanted to know what the arguments were of the member states which were against, so that i could discuss with them, so that i could dialogue with them, so that we could find solutions. so our goal is to be able to come up with solutions with these... (the president cut the speaker off)
the s&d group. mr president, the virunga park, as we have said, has been a unesco world heritage site since 1979. this world heritage is now under threat. it is threatened by the exploration for oil and gas, but also for mineral wealth, which, as we know, in this region feeds all the greed, from multinationals to militias and armed groups, as well as at the local level. the security situation is also very tense in the democratic republic of congo at the moment - as you said, madam commissioner - on the eve of the elections, and in the virunga park, as we have said, more than 140 people working there have already been murdered. and so, once again, economic interests, wherever they may be, take precedence over the protection of nature, the environment, even entire lives in the democratic republic of congo. the resolution asks a number of questions: first, how can the congolese government be encouraged to respect these riches? secondly, how can we ensure that european multinational companies operating in fragile regions respect the un guiding principles on business and human rights?
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the new mandate of the taxe special committee. i am glad that all the political groups have agreed on the s&d group's proposal. they thus give the taxe special committee a strong mandate for the next six months. a mandate which will enable: - to resume investigations into unfair tax practices between certain member states and multinationals. in recent months, several european tax havens, including belgium and luxembourg, and large companies have made every attempt to conceal the agreements negotiated between them. the new mandate will increase the pressure to obtain all the information; - to ensure that the ambitious measures advocated in the taxe report voted last week are taken into account by the member states; - to open a new project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i urge that all 28 member states of the european union be made equally aware of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it's a quick way to free up huge financial resources, which can be used for education, health care, infrastructure...
in writing. ‒ n-va supports the continuation of the work of the taxe special committee. it is vital for n-va that there can be a broad confidence in the findings of this special committee. some people had questions about the results of the first phase of the study. we do call on parliament to focus on the relevant issues which have unfortunately been under-reported so far. in concrete terms, we want to give the european parliament every opportunity to investigate further whether tax rulings are being misused as illegal state aid. the commission should examine what measures are necessary to counter such unfair state aid and to ensure sufficient transparency in tax rulings. this issue is far too important to play political games with.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the establishment of a new special committee taxe ii, albeit with a very similar outline to the committee that preceded it (thus, the mandate includes all the main elements of the previous special committee, the same structure and the same number of members, and will also be in place for six months). the new commission will be responsible for examining member states' practices and compliance with their obligations, in particular under the administrative cooperation directive, and for assessing how the commission has implemented its obligations in the field of state aid control and in its role as guardian of the treaties. the special committee should complete the work of the previous committee in order to resolve certain outstanding issues (in particular access to the documents of the code of conduct group). it will also monitor the implementation by the member states and the relevant european institutions of the taxe i committee's recommendations and the work at oecd and g20 level.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that all the political groups have agreed on the proposal made by the s&d group. they thus give the taxe special committee a strong mandate for the next six months. this warrant will allow three things. resume investigations into unfair tax practices between certain member states and multinationals. in recent months, several european tax havens, including belgium and luxembourg, and large companies have made every attempt to conceal the agreements negotiated between them. the new mandate will increase the pressure to obtain all information. to ensure that the ambitious measures advocated in the taxe report voted last week are taken into account by the member states. open up a new building site. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. we insist that all 28 member states of the european union should be equally aware of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it's a quick way to get huge amounts of money that can be used for education, health care, infrastructure, and so on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of the new taxe ii committee so that the european parliament would be fully able to continue its work on this subject successfully and would have every opportunity to do so.
in writing. ‒ in order to continue the work already started since february 2015, the members of the special committee on tax reservations have been extended.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the establishment of a new special committee taxe ii, albeit with a very similar outline to the committee that preceded it (thus, the mandate includes all the main elements of the previous special committee, the same structure and the same number of members, and will also be in place for six months). the new commission will be responsible for examining member states' practices and compliance with their obligations, in particular under the administrative cooperation directive, and for assessing how the commission has implemented its obligations in the field of state aid control and in its role as guardian of the treaties. the special committee should complete the work of the previous committee in order to resolve certain outstanding issues (in particular access to the documents of the code of conduct group). it will also monitor the implementation by the member states and the relevant european institutions of the taxe i committee's recommendations and the work at oecd and g20 level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the special committee on tax rulings and other similar measures by nature or effect, following the advice of the econ experts from the s&d political group and in particular my colleague hugues bayet, who has made a major contribution to this positive result.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings because they are a necessary decision to combat tax evasion and tax fraud at european level.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the new agreement between the european community and liechtenstein on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the measures taken in this text concern the exchange of information under the oecd convention and greater data protection.
in writing. the fight against fraud is intensifying at european level. it is essential that, in the face of this global phenomenon, we can put an end together to these illegal and fraudulent practices which damage the tax base of our member states. i am glad that the european parliament has approved this agreement, which will put an end to the banking secrecy of european citizens in liechtenstein. the european union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the bank accounts of their respective citizens by 2018. the european parliament, given the importance of the case, sent a strong message by an overwhelming majority (461 votes in favour, 49 against and 30 abstentions) to put an end to tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on 28 october 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to enhance tax cooperation and compliance at international level. this agreement, which i voted for, marks an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion: from 2017, the union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 28 october 2015 to enhance tax cooperation and compliance at international level. this agreement marks an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and reinforces the 2004 agreement which ensured that liechtenstein applies measures equivalent to those provided for in the union's savings tax directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial account data. this agreement is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the european union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange data on the bank accounts of each other's residents from 2017.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i have approved, takes note of the ongoing efforts by frontex to ensure respect for fundamental rights, including the establishment of an incident reporting system, the design of codes of conduct, the creation of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and the appointment of a fundamental rights officer. it also supported the european ombudsman's recommendation that frontex should deal with individual complaints of fundamental rights violations in the course of its operations and should provide sufficient administrative support for this purpose. it therefore calls on frontex to establish an appropriate complaint handling mechanism, including within the framework of its working arrangements with the competent authorities of third countries.
in writing. following an inquiry by the european ombudsman in 2012 into the fundamental rights obligations of frontex, the european parliament called for the establishment of a system within the agency to deal with complaints about violations of the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers in the context of the agency's operations. i welcome the inclusion in the text of provisions highlighting the need to protect vulnerable migrant groups such as women, unaccompanied minors and lgbti people. i am also glad that commissioner avramopoulos has already indicated that he will take this proposal into account in the revision of the frontex regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european union must regain control of its borders. this is a necessary observation, as the lack of preparation and proper management of the incessant flow of migrants fleeing war in the middle east is evident. the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, has recently put it very clearly: 'if the union does not protect its external borders better, then a small group of countries will do so.' this means the importance of strengthening frontex, the european border management agency, alongside the establishment of a european border and coast guard. more powers and more rights for frontex agents, but also duties, as meps have called for today in a resolution. in practice, parliament wants a mechanism to be set up to deal with individual complaints about alleged violations of the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. this request follows the ombudsman's own inquiry in 2012 into frontex's fundamental rights obligations. the ball is in the european commission's court to include this complaint handling mechanism in the revision of the frontex regulations, due in december.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which considers, in particular, that in view of the ever-increasing humanitarian and legal challenges at the external borders of the european union, and the strengthening of frontex operations, it is necessary to have a mechanism capable of dealing with individual complaints concerning alleged violations of fundamental rights during frontex operations or cooperation with third countries and that frontex should thus become a first instance for the handling of complaints, in line with the conclusions of the european ombudsman's report which insisted on the implementation of such a mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation in the european parliament believes that anyone whose fundamental rights are violated has the right to lodge a complaint and to receive a response. nevertheless, we are voting against this report because the complaints procedure proposed is totally inappropriate. this procedure is based on the complaint mechanism used within the european central bank (ecb). as such, it does not take into account the structure of frontex itself, which as an eu agency brings together and coordinates resources and staff from different eu member states. the ideas expressed in this report should have been better developed so as not to place an administrative burden on an agency which is today doing its utmost to deal with the problems at our external borders. problems of uncontrolled mass migration towards the european continent combined with a substantial threat to security from infiltration by foreign jihadists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i also believe that frontex should deal with individual complaints about fundamental rights violations in the course of its operations and should provide sufficient administrative support for this purpose. we call on frontex to establish an appropriate complaint handling mechanism, including within the framework of its working arrangements with the competent authorities of third countries.
in writing. ‒ our european union urgently needs to improve its control of its external borders. to do this, i think it is necessary to give frontex more powers and more powers. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we in the european parliament want to see the individual complaints mechanism put into effect. this individual complaint procedure should enable refugees to raise any human rights violations that have occurred during frontex operations or in cooperation with third countries. it is crucial that human rights are protected. that is why i voted in favour of this special report.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report, which highlights the positive aspects of the action taken so far at european level in organising sustainable urban mobility. in this respect, it stresses the importance of spatial planning for the creation of well-organised, efficient and sustainable transport networks, as well as the information and involvement of all stakeholders (citizens, traders, transport operators, etc.) in order to ensure transparency and efficiency in urban mobility projects.
due to increasing urbanisation, 82% of eu citizens will soon live in an urban environment. together, these people account for almost 85% of european gdp. cities are important engines of innovation and economic growth, and it is in them that we still find the best opportunities for employment, education, cultural activities and catering. but the increasing pressure of mobility and the finding that urban transport is responsible for 25 percent of co2 emissions threatens to undermine the vitality of the city. new and sustainable models of urban mobility are needed to maintain and sustain the dynamism of cities. new urban transport plans will therefore primarily use low-carbon modes of transport that connect to an urban grid of smart traffic hubs that allow for quick and easy transition from one mode of transport to another. the development of sustainable transport plans must always seek to strike a balance between the ecological and social impact of a mobility plan and the needs of the city's residents and visitors, all without undermining the city's economic engine.
in writing. ‒ congestion and pollution in large cities are painful realities of our daily lives that need to be improved urgently for good health and a better environment. this was also emphasized by the european parliament this evening when it adopted the delli report on sustainable urban mobility. some of the ways are known to reduce the presence of cars in cities: better public transport networks, easy train-metro bus connections, the development of car-sharing or teleworking. i did not, however, support amendment no 1 to remove all subsidies for fossil fuels. the idea is relevant and partly in line with the conclusions of the oecd in its september report, which identified no less than 800 measures to support fossil fuels worldwide. however, it seems impractical in reality, since many subsidies for polluting energy directly benefit the most vulnerable people. the priority is therefore to reverse the current practice and to shift public support towards renewable energy. one idea to be explored, put forward by the oecd experts, would be to subsidize household incomes directly by means of a cheque, leaving them free to spend it as they see fit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which encourages in particular member states to review their strategies to promote non-motorised transport in order to serve the converging interests of improving mobility and the urban environment. the adopted text also encourages member states to promote the use of bicycles, including by setting ambitious targets for bicycle use rates by 2030 and to improve conditions for walking and cycling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the initiative of my colleague karima delli. mobility is not an end in itself, but should be a right for all citizens. 80% of europeans will soon live in cities; mobility should therefore promote access for all, including persons with reduced mobility, to education, work, culture, leisure and health. yet urban mobility is often seen as a constraint, which has its origin in the overuse of the private car running on traditional fuels. in fact, the shift to more sustainable modes of transport is very slow: the car remains the main mode of our mobility, accounting for 43% of the kilometres travelled worldwide and three quarters of journeys in europe. the dependence on cars and its corollary, road congestion, which is estimated to cost 80 billion euros for all european cities, makes city dwellers prisoners of a mobility that is suffered, if not chosen.
in writing. ‒ a sharp increase in mobility pressures and the associated pollution in our cities is a growing problem for our society. it is clear that we need to look for new co2-neutral transport options that improve urban mobility in a sustainable way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore voted in favour of this report because better and more sustainable mobility can also be a major boost for our economy.
i have four reservations about the files we are discussing today. without a doubt, we should invest in renewable energy. but the more renewable energy we produce, the more we strain the existing grids with peaks and troughs in supply. to counteract this we need better links between the member states. second point of order: if we want to give renewable energy a fair chance, we need to let the market do its job as quickly as possible. and we must not allow these to be falsified, for example, by allowing member states to grant subsidies for a particular technology. a third point: the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. fourth and final point: if we are to achieve the 2020 and 2030 targets and the subsequent targets, we need energy storage. conclusion the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
in writing. we will vote for more effective legislation on trade marks. we want to make life easier for businesses by making trademark registration simpler, faster, more reliable and also cheaper. the measures to combat counterfeit goods will also be strengthened. we have also ensured that the free movement of generic medicines is not hindered. the new rules provide for: a) a strengthening of the means of combating counterfeit goods, particularly those passing through europe; increased cooperation between national and european legislation will be a plus; (b) a substantial reduction in the fees payable for the registration of trade marks; the reduction in these costs could amount to up to one third of the current cost; (c) acceleration and simplification of procedures, which will make life easier for businesses, especially smes.
i would like to take this opportunity to ask for a little extra attention for vulnerable victims of terrorism, such as people with disabilities. member states should ensure that the victim is properly assisted in the first contact and all subsequent contacts with the police or the judiciary, if he or she needs assistance in understanding or being understood. in practical terms, this means that a deaf person should be able to rely on the assistance of a sign language interpreter at the police station or in court. a person with a mental disability should be able to bring a confidant. only then can he fully exercise his rights as a victim. this is and remains a major pain point in many eu countries. so there is a need for awareness and follow-up. the right to understand and to be understood must therefore be a major concern of the commission in drawing up the report on implementation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the introduction into the community of certain substances harmful to the health of workers. we ask the commission not to grant this authorization. this is happening in the context of the debate on the democratisation of the decision-making process on gmos. this is also happening in the context of the debate on the safety of certain chemicals, in particular glufosinate and glyphosate, two pesticides that cause resistance in the gmo in question. the european parliament has therefore put this debate on the agenda today, and at the earliest possible moment after the vote in the committee on the environment. this was the earliest moment to be able to debate this in plenary. and what do we find? the commission decided to allow this gmo on 4 december, three days after the environment committee raised its objection and before this plenary debate. commissioner, you should convey the message to your colleague andriukaitis: this commission behaviour is indecent. it is a provocation. it is a complete disregard for the political statements of the european parliament and in fact it is also very damaging to the relationship between the commission and parliament. colleagues, i think we can't just let this go by. we are further away than ever from the promises made to us by commission president juncker on 15 july 2014 and the political directives put forward in that context, announcing that the commission would no longer take decisions on gmos against a majority of member states. we're further away from that debate than we've ever been. the commission has tried to get around the import of gmos with new legislation. we have deleted that proposal on 28 october and asked the commission to come forward with a new proposal, but the commission refuses. in the meantime, the commission is continuing to allow the import of gmo plants into the european union. in 2015, more gmos were approved than ever before. the debate also concerns the transparency of decisionmaking in the commission. i have used the public administration act to find out how the commission's proposal came about. i got a big, fat paper bag with all kinds of things blacked out. this is what i call undemocratic, not transparent. so, commissioner, i would ask you to hand over to us the 12 options which the commission had in mind for further democratization of legislation. i think that would show some respect. secondly: the public health issue. the gmo in question that you have now authorised is resistant to the pesticides glufosinate, a highly toxic chemical, and glyphosate. this is against the background of the discussion in which the international agency for research on cancer has said that this substance is probably carcinogenic. efsa says that's not the case. a letter has come from 96 scientists who are undermining the methods of the efsa. they say that this has not been done correctly and against this background you, commissioner, allow a substance which is resistant to these substances and which at least is subject to debate. so, commissioner, i would like to ask you: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
- i'm the reporter. i have been in this parliament for 16 years and i am more and more surprised by the way the commission is handling this matter! you say that you are simply following the formal rules, and you do so as if all this were taken out of context, a context in which your commission president, mrs bieńkowska, said: we're going to have a serious talk about democratizing decision-making, not just for importing gmo plants, food and animal feed, but for cultivation. the first case was dealt with earlier this year. the second dossier has been discarded because it does not offer a solution to democratization. it has nothing to do with democratization. it's about renationalization. renationalising european policy is not democratizing european policy, and that is the fundamental difference that is on the table here. i thank all the members who took part in the debate. i see that the ladies who were mainly opposed to my report, to my resolution, have disappeared. i would also like to thank all those who have put forward arguments in support of this resolution. the arguments are on the table for us. it is a grave insult to parliament to grant permission on 4 december, not to wait for the debate here tonight and the result of the vote on wednesday. there are doubts about the health aspects, about the combined use of glyphosate and glufosinate-related herbicides. commissioner, would you please convey this message to mr andriukaitis; we shall then invite him to the environment committee to discuss this further. i think that this should be done anyway, and in the presence of president juncker, because it is clear that he is not doing what he has promised us.
mr president, i would ask the honourable member who has not seen the liberals to wear glasses. the liberals are outnumbered by the members of his group in this debate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the euro is a federal currency, not an intergovernmental currency. that is why i welcome you, mr dijsselbloem, as president of the eurogroup, because you are right, the members of the eurogroup, as finance ministers, are accountable to their national parliaments, but it is quite normal for the president of the eurogroup to be accountable to the european parliament. you do this regularly in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and i think it is only fair that you do it in the plenary, so you are welcome. the recipes which have been practised in europe for the last five or six years to preserve this federal currency, which we also want, are they working? however, if i take your fetish indicator, growth, i find that it is, at best, evanescent. and if we look a little more closely at what is happening in the countries - and i will not speak of greece because it is such a complicated case that it would confuse the message - but of spain, a country which has applied with conviction the recipes you advocate, namely the reduction of the role of the state, the reduction of direct and indirect wages - what do we see? yes, growth is returning to spain, but at what cost? when employment increases, it is unskilled employment, it is part-time employment. this is what creates this new category of working poor. in spain, a leading country in the eurozone, one in three children is facing poverty. so if you call that success, let me have a few questions. your revenue is actually falling. they are countercyclical: they compress public demand and private demand. the result: no growth. so if you're so hung up on it, it's not the right solution. as cop 21 comes to a close, we should actually put the whole package on investment in the energy transition. this is obviously a climate requirement, but it's also a geostrategic requirement if we want to stop defending people like putin or saudi arabia. it's a macroeconomic requirement if we're going to stop spending hundreds of billions of dollars a year on fossil fuels. this is a requirement in terms of jobs, since everyone knows that renewable energy is much more job-intensive than traditional energy. secondly, 150 years after unification, 25 years after reunification, germany, which is a monetary union and a customs union, is still not homogeneous. it is not tomorrow that the european union and the euro zone will be homogeneous, and so there is no euro that holds without powerful rebalancing mechanisms within the euro zone. these mechanisms must be implemented by the private sector, namely the banking union, which is known to be incomplete - it is known that it will be difficult to bring about the emergence of the third pillar, the common deposit guarantee - but also by the public sector. this includes a common taxation system, a euro-zone budget and a common social security embryo. the five presidents' report makes only very vague reference to all this, and it is well known that there is no political will to do so at present. if we do not go through these rebalancing mechanisms, the euro area is doomed. i do not want it to disappear, and therefore these rebalancing mechanisms will have to be put in place. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". dear mr pirinski, i think competitiveness is a real issue. it is not just a question of foreign trade, since every day our compatriots buy goods and services and see what they get for their money. i am not opposed in principle to having advice on this subject, but under certain conditions. first, they must deal with competitiveness in all its aspects, i.e. values and not just costs. secondly, when we talk about costs, it is not just labour costs, but also energy costs, resource costs, return on capital, in other words all costs. finally, these councils must not be limited to bringing together experts, whose origins are generally well known, but must deliberately include the social partners, whether trade unions, employers or political representatives. in these circumstances, i would like to consider the idea of setting up these councils devoted to competitiveness, but as a real subject.
i would like to welcome you to this parliament of the european union. you come here as the president of the part of the european union where the euro is the currency, in a european parliament that is completely divided. it has become impossible to agree in this parliament even on the broad outlines of this euro-policy and this monetary union. a large group here is in favour of more euros and of the euro. the commission is therefore proposing a unification of socioeconomic policy and further cuts in southern europe, even if this causes a social bloodbath there. there is also a large group of people who are in favour of your euro zone and of the continuation of the euro. that group should know much less about austerity, does not expect much from it, nothing structural, nothing fundamental and also wants a continuation of your loose ecb policy, with more or less preserving the derailed budgetary situations. and then there is a third group who believe that holding on to the single euro for all our countries is a fantasy that we should let go of slowly and sooner rather than later. this group will continue to grow and in the coming year will bring more and more truth to the fore, which will hurt, because the euro crisis will continue, as will the asylum crisis. for these reasons, i wish you much reflection and also much relief during your christmas holidays.
thank you, mr president, and thank you to all the chairmen who are here today. unfortunately, i don't have a pleasant message for you either, because i think your report is based on a piece of outdated philosophy: the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not what europeans are waiting for. on the contrary, i think they've had enough. in britain, there is a debate about brexit. in denmark, they vote against the justice policy. in france, the national front has never won so many votes. in eastern europe something is brewing against europe, against this unique idea. it is always either more europe or total destruction. my dear colleagues, that will not work and how do i know that? because we tried it in belgium. we have had a federal union with transfers, with a lack of democratic support, and that is not working. what does work is more responsibility, responsibility both for the european institutions and for all the european member states and so we have to look at that 'no bailout' rule as we had it in the maastricht treaty; we need to see if and how we can repair it, reinforce it. because that is the way to perfectly secure the euro, and that is what we must do. that way we can do it without all these new institutions, without all these new powers and also without all these new taxes. responsibility, unity and diversity, doing what europe is really strong at and not opting for a suffocating european superstate. that is the way we must go with this european union.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. i am frankly pained to see that even a mere reference to completing the banking union is too sensitive for some member states. i would like to hear from those ministers how they think they can avoid a repeat of the 2008-2009 debacle, in which bank and government debt reinforced each other, without a fully-fledged banking union, including a genuine european deposit guarantee mechanism. for me, strengthening or deepening emu is a matter of pure pragmatism. my inspiration is the simple need to give the emu the necessary instruments to function better and thus also to increase its legitimacy and support among the citizens. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission does not allow itself to be paralysed by these short-sighted national reflexes and puts forward realistic concrete proposals. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national experts in the field of the environment. the adjusted timing of the semester also allows for greater involvement of national parliaments and the social partners. but the closer involvement of the national level should not be interpreted as a signal that it is there that the real legitimacy lies. no, the european construction is characterized by a multi-layered legitimacy in which the european parliament plays a crucial role. the european interest is much more than the sum of the interests of the individual member states. the founding fathers realized that they had to protect themselves against their own national reflexes, because they undermine the surplus of european cooperation. the european union is supranational in nature, and that is why it needs strong institutions and a strong european parliament, in order to guarantee the legitimacy of this structure. so no, i am not a young dreamer who is stubbornly clinging to an outdated idea of a european superstate. i simply want to help in a purely pragmatic way and do what is necessary to make this european and monetary union work better in the future. thank you, sir.
i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter. of course they are through the internal market. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take responsibility together as the european union, the commission, parliament and the member states. firstly, by ensuring that the credibility of the stability pact is restored. secondly, by completing the banking union in order to guarantee financial stability to citizens and businesses. and thirdly, by completing that capital markets union to ensure that we are less dependent on bank financing and we can finally make real investments in our real economy. but countries must also take responsibility for this story. it is not possible for them to agree on structural reforms and then implement only 10 or 15% of them in their own country. how can we have a common economic policy if that is the credibility and lack of ownership of different countries? so you will have to put more pressure on them to ensure that these structural reforms are also implemented in those countries. the last point is democratic responsibility. i think we must also start a debate on this, to ensure that this parliament can play its part more than ever with national parliaments in ensuring these reforms and stability. the european central bank has given us as politicians time, has given politicians time to take responsibility. it is time for the european central bank to do its job as an independent monetary institution and for us politicians at european and national level to work together to solve this problem once and for all.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 regulation establishing the european asylum support office opens up the possibility of offering iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland observer status by concluding an ad hoc agreement. in this report, which i have approved, parliament expresses a positive opinion on the participation of switzerland. this will be achieved through full participation of switzerland in the agency's ongoing assistance, information collection, alert system and contribution to the agency's budget.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office (easo) plays a key role in the establishment of the common european asylum system and provides support to eu member states whose asylum systems and reception capacities are under particular pressure. this is the case with the refugee crisis we are experiencing today. its rules provide that the four states associated with dublin cooperation may take part in the activities of the support office. i am glad that switzerland wishes to continue this cooperation and therefore voted in favour of the resolution giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in easo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution which, in view of the draft arrangement already in existence between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, gives its approval to the conclusion of the arrangement.
in writing. ‒ we have given our approval to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ faced with the enormous influx of people seeking asylum in our european union, it is more than once necessary to work on a coordinated asylum policy. it is crucial that member states cooperate more closely on asylum policy. the cooperation with switzerland should not be overlooked. that is why i voted for this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting dominica, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. the eu-dominica visa waiver agreement is an important further step in the intensification of our relations. dominica, a member of the cotonou agreement, shares with the eu a number of values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the successful action taken against trafficking in women and children is commendable. renewable energy (geothermal, wind, solar), the environment (water and waste), and infrastructure construction (roads, seismic and cyclone-resistant construction) are all sectors that present real opportunities for the european market.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for dominican citizens and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting vanuatu, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. the approval of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and vanuatu completes a process initiated under the previous legislature to grant visa-free travel to nationals of several third countries who meet all the security, immigration and public order requirements. i am pleased that among the nine countries whose bilateral agreements have been approved are several states of the african, caribbean and pacific group. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has initiated this visa waiver process. the agreement with the republic of vanuatu forms part of the wider framework of relations between the union and this pacific republic, which is geared to cooperation, in particular in the fields of private sector development, agriculture and tourism.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of vanuatu and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting trinidad and tobago, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days over a period of 180 days in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolutions giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with eight small caribbean and pacific islands and the united arab emirates. these agreements will allow european citizens to travel to these destinations without a visa requirement for short stays and reciprocally for nationals of these countries when travelling to the schengen area.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and trinidad and tobago. this approval completes a process initiated under the previous parliamentary term to exempt from visa requirements nationals of several third countries who meet all the security, immigration and public order requirements. i am pleased that among the nine countries whose bilateral agreements have been approved today are several states of the african, caribbean and pacific group. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has also helped to bring this visa-free process to fruition. the agreement with trinidad and tobago will further strengthen the relationship between trinidad and tobago and the european union, particularly in the area of trade policy. cooperation on human rights will also be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of trinidad and tobago and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting samoa, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. the visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and samoan nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period was discussed at the 8th regional meeting of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i am very happy to see that we have reached the end of this process that started in july 2012 in apia. the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the union and the state of samoa will strengthen the relationship between the two parties, which are already cooperating successfully on key issues related to human rights, gender equality, climate change and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of samoa and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting the nationals of grenada, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and grenada. this approval completes a process initiated under the previous parliamentary term to exempt from visas nationals from several third countries who meet all the security, immigration and public order requirements. i am pleased that among the nine countries whose bilateral agreements have been approved today are several states of the african, caribbean and pacific group. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has also helped to bring this visa-free process to fruition. the agreement with grenada will allow the two partners to open an additional chapter in their relationship, which must be primarily focused on the values dear to both the state of grenada and the union, including good governance and the rule of law. this type of agreement encourages exchanges between young people and contacts between individuals, stimulates tourism and gives new impetus to trade between the eu and grenada.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of grenada and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and east timor. this approval completes a process initiated under the previous parliamentary term to exempt from visa requirements nationals of several third countries who meet all the security, immigration and public order requirements. i am pleased that among the nine countries whose bilateral agreements have been approved today are several states of the african, caribbean and pacific group. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has also helped to bring this visa-free process to fruition. the agreement with east timor will boost european investment and strengthen the trade and friendship links between the union and the pacific nation. more generally, this agreement will strengthen the partnership between the union and the pacific states.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland are not parties to these agreements and are not subject to the provisions of these agreements, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for east timorese citizens and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ the agreement exempts east timor, a state which has experienced very rapid democratic stabilisation after its independence, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. the presence of saint lucia among the countries whose nationals are now exempt from visa requirements will undoubtedly strengthen the union's relations with this young caribbean state. the progress made by saint lucia in the area of fundamental rights, the fight against trafficking in human beings and the promotion of gender equality should be highlighted. these developments make saint lucia a partner of the union in the principles so dear to the union, namely human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of saint lucia and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ this is the approval of an agreement exempting st vincent and the grenadines, a democratically stable state, from schengen visas for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period in the european union and vice versa. this will in particular help to promote political dialogue and economic exchanges with that state. i approved this deal.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines this is a gesture of openness that reflects european values. this approval completes a process initiated under the previous parliamentary term to exempt from visa requirements nationals of several third countries who meet all the security, immigration and public order requirements. i am pleased that among the nine countries whose bilateral agreements have been approved today are several states of the african, caribbean and pacific group. the presence of saint vincent and the grenadines among the countries whose nationals are now exempt from visa requirements will undoubtedly deepen the already close ties between the european union and the caribbean states. political and commercial relations with saint vincent and the grenadines will only be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. it should be noted that the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country and has strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement as well as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa waiver for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ it is the first arab state with which the eu has signed a visa-free agreement. however, it should be noted that the eu has had a liaison office in the country since 1993. the exemption is based on the desire to strengthen economic and cultural relations with the uae and to intensify political dialogue, in particular to stabilise the region and combat terrorism. it is also worth noting that a uae-eu technical working group on human rights was established alongside the agreement. more than 150 000 european nationals are based in the uae mainly for professional reasons and 1.6 million europeans visit the uae every year. in 2014, 230,000 emirati people travelled to europe mainly for business or luxury tourism. the rapporteur believes that the uae does not pose any risk related to illegal immigration, public order or security and has provided the european institutions with the relevant information in this regard. in addition, they issue biometric passports to their citizens. i approved that point.
in writing. the united arab emirates is on the 'positive list' of countries exempted from the visa requirement for short stays (90 days). in return, they acceded to the eu's request to establish an uae-eu working group on human rights, including freedom of expression, women's rights and the rights of migrant workers. the establishment of a dialogue between the two partners on such an essential issue is an important step in the deepening of relations between the union and the uae in particular but also with the gulf region in general.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this draft agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, which has already been provisionally applied since may 2015. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of those third countries when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in these agreements and are not subject to their provisions, nor are the non-european territories of france and the netherlands.
in writing. ‒ i followed my political group and the expert on the subject. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of the united arab emirates and our own eu citizens. the visa waiver applies to travel of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to better trade relations, more investment and more tourism.
in writing. ‒ eurojust and the office concluded the memorandum because they were keen to develop strategic cooperation that could help them achieve their respective objectives. this cooperation shall be based on an exchange of information but without the transmission of personal data. i approved this report.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement between eurojust and the eu's main intellectual property protection agency. the aim of the office for harmonisation in the internal market is to manage the instruments of protection of creativity and innovation, namely the community trade mark and the registered community design, in the best possible way. this technical agreement will encourage and develop strategic cooperation between eurojust and the office, while respecting the principle of data protection. the memorandum 'does not include the transmission of operational information, in particular data relating to an identified or identifiable person'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this memorandum, which aims to encourage cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market in accordance with their respective mandates.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the draft implementing decision under examination formalises the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market, which is the subject of the competence of the committee on legal affairs under annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum is to encourage cooperation between eurojust and the office in accordance with their respective mandates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. i believe that this memorandum will improve the functioning of both institutions.
in writing. the functioning of the eu is based on a balanced budget financed from own resources, i.e. traditional own resources, vat-based resources (maximum 50% of each member state's gni) and resources based on gross national income. the amount of this budget is capped at 1.23% of the total gross national income of the member states. when a country becomes a member of the eu, it commits to pay its annual contribution in proportion to its wealth. in the event of disproportionate payment, the member state may benefit from a correction, as is currently the case for germany, the netherlands, the united kingdom, austria and sweden. the report which has been voted on is purely technical and does not deal with the calculation of the amounts of the member states' contributions in terms of own resources. in particular, it proposes a number of clarifications and improvements, mainly of a technical nature, reflecting the experience gained, in particular with regard to the accounting of own resources, the management of the commission's cash resources, the evaluation of gni data by the commission (eurostat), the impact of criminal investigations on the identification and provision of traditional own resources and the reporting of amounts of uncollectable traditional own resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for effective rules governing the timely payment of member states' contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its cash efficiently. the report also supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay one-third of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to further reduce the payment delays of the previous year linked to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, as well as interest on late payments. the text also stresses the importance of timely payment of amounts due to beneficiaries of the union budget.
in writing. - i voted for the deprez proposal. we stress the need for effective rules governing the timely payment of member states' contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its cash efficiently. parliament supported the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay one-third of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to further reduce the payment delays of the previous year linked to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds and the interest on late payments.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the allocation of traditional own resources, vat and gni resources and measures to meet cash requirements. the european commission is using this to avoid any problems due to technical recalculations. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it is designed to avoid internal frictions.
in writing. ‒ following the almost unanimous opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i have approved the waiver of parliamentary immunity requested by the greek judiciary in respect of mr kyrstos and which relates to a case which predates his presence in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr georgios kyrtsos' immunity, so that the greek judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts non-payment of part of the salary of one of his former employees have no connection with mr kyrtsos's function as a member of parliament, as they are related to his previous function as manager of press companies and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentarian's immunity so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos so that he can defend himself before the greek courts.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i have approved the waiver of parliamentary immunity requested by the greek judiciary in respect of mr kouloglou, which concerns a case which predates his presence in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr stelios kouloglou's immunity, so that the greek judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts defamation by means of the press against the prison staff of patras have no connection with mr kouloglou's function as a member of parliament, as they are related to his previous function as a television reporter, and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentarian's immunity so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou, so that he can defend himself before the national court.
in writing. ‒ nokia's difficulties and competition from third countries have had a significant impact on employment in the ict sector in finland. from 2008 to 2014, the number of workers in the sector increased from 326,000 to 276,000. the oulu region was particularly affected and in spring 2015 there were still 1 500 jobseekers in the ict sector looking for work. i therefore supported the intervention of the egf to support the efforts of the finnish authorities to facilitate their integration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global trade crisis and the victims of the financial crisis. the request in question, submitted by finland, concerns redundancies in the information technology sector. indeed, in recent years, the distribution of ict employment between the eu and other economies has been to the detriment of the eu. while volume in this sector is increasing globally, it has decreased in europe as companies and services are relocated to china, india, taiwan and other non-european destinations. in 2014 alone, the number of employees in ict companies in finland decreased by 3% (i.e. 1 500 people). the aim is to help 1 603 redundant employees in 69 enterprises in different regions of finland. the aid will amount to eur 2 623 200 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures focusing on job search assistance, training, vocational reorientation, etc. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to restore economic growth. the n-va meps therefore abstained from voting on this dossier.
in writing. ict employment in finland fell by 3% (around 10 000 workers) between 2008 and 2014, mainly due to microsoft's €5.4 billion takeover of former phone leader nokia and the outsourcing of ict companies specialising in programming, consulting and other it activities to china, india and other non-european countries. it is our duty to respond to finnish demand by mobilising eur 2.636 million to help reintegrate the 1,200 workers made redundant in this sector. solidarity is one of the union's values. i welcome the initiative of finland, which did not wait for the mobilisation of this fund to help its workers by launching the implementation of personalised services on 1 august 2014.
in writing. ‒ during this session, i voted in favour of finland's request for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies in the ict (information and communication technologies) sector. unfortunately, in recent years, several european companies in this sector have relocated to china, india, taiwan and other non-european destinations. the case of finland is even more dramatic, as between 2008 and 2014, the tech industry in finland saw its workforce shrink by 50,000 people. in 2014 alone, the number of employees in ict companies in finland decreased by 3%, i.e. by 1 500 people. in view of these factors, it seemed to me quite right to grant finland a financial contribution from the egf to help the many workers in this sector. the amount mobilised would be eur 2 623 200, or 60% of the total cost of the proposed actions.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for employees made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation, the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. so i voted in favour of this plan.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support this proposal. in view of the high number of redundancies in the ict sector in finland, mainly as a result of the reforms at nokia in recent years, these measures seem to me appropriate in order to promote entrepreneurship in finland and to enable the affected finns to quickly switch to a new job.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this council proposal, which has the main objective of promoting innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems more accessible to businesses across the eu and more efficient, making them less complex and less costly but also faster, more predictable and legally more secure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european trade mark. this regulation is essential for the competitiveness of the union. while maintaining the coexistence of the eu trade mark and national trade marks and respecting the principle of subsidiarity, the system provides for the harmonisation and simplification of the procedures for filing a trade mark. the adoption of this legislative package will modernise trade mark law, adapt it to the world of the internet and make it easier, faster and cheaper to register a trade mark in the european union. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. trade mark proprietors will now be able to oppose the introduction into the union of products from third countries where these products bear, without authorisation, a trade mark which is identical to the duly registered european trade mark.
in writing. beyond this vote at second reading, i am in favour of this reform of the community trade mark system in the name of better protection of trade marks against counterfeiting, efficiency, cost reduction, etc. the main objective is to promote innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems more efficient and accessible to businesses throughout the union, and by making them less complex and less costly, faster, more predictable and more legally secure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to modernise the rules on trade marks to make it easier to register them in the european union and, above all, to fight counterfeiting. the european rules on trademarks, the logos or symbols that distinguish a company's products or services, were established some 20 years ago. so it was time to adapt them. the procedures will now be shorter and lighter in order to support enterprises, including smes. the cost of registration should therefore be considerably reduced by lower taxes. the new rules also aim to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting in europe, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the european parliament voted in favour of more effective legislation on trade marks. we want to make life easier for businesses by making trademark registration simpler, faster, more reliable and also cheaper. the measures to combat counterfeit goods will also be strengthened. we have also ensured that the free movement of generic medicines is not hindered.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. the objectives of the european parliament, namely greater efficiency, less bureaucracy and less costs, have already been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this council proposal, which has the main objective of promoting innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems more accessible to businesses across the union and more efficient, by making them less complex and less costly but also faster, more predictable and legally more secure.
in writing. this revision is positive and targeted at making trademark protection easier, cheaper and more effective. the aim is to streamline registration procedures, modernise legislation, increase legal certainty, improve existing texts, encourage cooperation between member states, strengthen the fight against counterfeit goods in transit across the union, etc. all of this tells me that we are stronger when we work together and that we have a constant need for a 'better europe' in a globalised world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to modernise the rules on trade marks to make it easier to register them in the european union and, above all, to fight counterfeiting. the european rules on trademarks, the logos or symbols that distinguish a company's products or services, were established some 20 years ago. so it was time to adapt them. the procedures will also be shorter and lighter in order to support businesses, especially smes. the cost of registration should therefore be considerably reduced by lower taxes. the new rules also aim to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting in europe, which is good news!
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. the objectives of the european parliament, namely greater efficiency, less bureaucracy and lower costs, have already been achieved.
in writing. ‒ the main amendment to this text, which i have approved, is to align the fisheries control regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
in writing. i welcome the position adopted by the european parliament on the proposal to amend the regulation on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic. the aim is to incorporate into european law the recent recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, which deal in particular with the essential issue of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in view of the damage caused by such fishing and the threat it poses to the sustainability of fish stocks, the union must redouble its efforts and cooperate closely at international level to eradicate such activities as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which introduces new measures which should already have been incorporated into council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 of 20 november 2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and council regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 of 29 september 2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, for which the european parliament is awaiting commission proposals to allow the necessary revision to be carried out.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the transposition of the recommendations adopted by the napec into eu legislation. it was therefore only natural that parliament should vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in march, the north atlantic fisheries commission adopted a number of recommendations. the vote in the european parliament will transpose these recommendations into european law. these recommendations will contribute to better conservation and long-term use of fish stocks. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ while croatia joined the european union on 1 july 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take account of the traditional preferential trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina in the context of the central european free trade agreement (cefta) that bound the two countries before 1 july 2013. in view of this deadlock and the damage caused to the union's trade interests, the commission proposes that the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina are not automatically extended but made subject to the agreement of bosnia and herzegovina on the union methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement.
in writing. the european parliament gave its consent to suspend the application of exceptional trade measures in favour of bosnia and herzegovina. since croatia's accession, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet adapted its trade concessions with the new country. the european union therefore wishes to suspend provisionally the preferences granted to bosnia and herzegovina. although a privileged partner of the european union in a number of important areas, it is imperative that bosnia and herzegovina respects croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, while calling for respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights, as well as the protection of minorities, to be guaranteed in order to allow the accession process to progress.
in writing. ‒ trade between the union and the western balkan countries is liberalised by a number of stabilisation and association agreements (saas) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. in addition, kosovo (which is not yet covered by an saa) and the whole region benefit from autonomous trade measures (atms) granted by the union since 2000. these unilateral preferences allow unlimited duty-free access to the union market for most products. unlike saa in which preferences are granted by both parties , the csms constitute a unilateral preferential regime in favour of the western balkans. i am happy with the changes proposed in the text.
in writing. ‒ i support the suspension of the exceptional trade measures in relation to bosnia-herzegovina. this suspension should be seen as a means of persuading bosnia-herzegovina to resolve the disagreement between that country and the european union on the adaptation of the interim agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the present resolution, which i have approved, concerns strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates in the fight against terrorism. the exchange of information, in particular expert assessments, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations or information on crime prevention methods, is at the heart of this. the exchange of personal data shall not be part of the cooperation.
in writing. ‒ parliament was here to give an opinion on a council decision to establish a strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates. this type of strategic agreement mainly concerns enhanced cooperation in the fields of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, methods of preventing criminal acts, etc. the agreement, however, excludes any exchange of personal data. the european union wishes to strengthen its judicial and police cooperation with the united arab emirates in the fight against terrorism. this should also be useful in the fight against international financial crime, of which the uae has become a hub. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report recommending that the council approve the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol. it would have been preferable if this agreement on strategic cooperation had been adopted after the entry into force of the new europol regulation. the new legal basis of the agency has significantly changed the procedure for the conclusion of international agreements, the provisions and safeguards relating to data protection and the classification of documents. the negative vote is therefore not about the content of the agreement, which i support without hesitation, but about defending the role of parliament and thus ensuring better democratic control over these agreements.
in writing. on wednesday, the european parliament was consulted on the future international agreement establishing operational and strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. the agreement should, however, be based on the future europol regulation, which will give the european parliament more powers and guarantee better safeguards, particularly in the area of personal data protection. i therefore join the majority of my group in using the voice here in parliament to protest against the conclusion of such an agreement until the new europol regulation is in force. while we are totally in favour of cooperation between europol and the uae, we wanted to send a clear signal and defend the role of parliament in such essential matters as cooperation in the fight against crime and trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to approve the conclusion, by the european police office (europol), of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. it should be noted that the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. the council should now give its consent for this strategic agreement to be approved, given that the europol management board approved it on 13 may 2015.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. since this type of strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, the issue of data protection is not relevant in the present case. the information exchanged may include expert opinions, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, as well as training, advice and support activities in specific criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ it seems appropriate to wait for a new agreement under the new europol regulation, which gives a stronger role to the european parliament. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the commission's package on the european energy union, parliament's position on this issue is set out in this resolution. in principle, i share the view that the eu should aim to reduce its dependence on individual energy suppliers (security of supply) and that energy efficiency should be fundamentally reconsidered and treated as an independent source of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear industry is not left behind. i regret, however, that the text does not take account of an amendment which is important to me and which deals with the negative consequences of fracking on the climate, the environment and public health. that is why i abstained in the final vote. since i believe that fracking is not a promising technology and that, apart from the environmental and health risks, the investment and development costs are too high, member states should refrain from exploring and extracting shale gas.
in writing. ‒ at a time when cop 21 has delivered ambitious and necessary targets, i supported this resolution in which parliament reaffirms its commitment to the 2030 climate and energy targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix to 27% and increasing energy efficiency by 30%. parliament also stressed that the energy union should be a comprehensive approach focusing on various aspects such as the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, security of supply, the best use of the union's energy resources, limiting energy demand, reducing greenhouse gas emissions mainly through renewable energy sources and an eu-wide carbon market, and research and innovation in the energy sector. it also stressed the obvious fact that citizens should be at the heart of the energy union and benefit from safe, sustainable and affordable energy and called for their involvement in all the work of the energy union.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is without doubt the most important policy package of this legislature. all vital policy areas come together here: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the following issues: we need to make big legislative strides in the coming year to increase the share of renewable energy, reduce energy consumption through greater energy efficiency, and guarantee the continuity of gas supply. in 2016, we also need to take important steps to develop a balanced ets system that ensures that we can further reduce co2 emissions, but also that adequate attention is paid to the competitiveness of our energy-intensive businesses.
in writing. ‒ europe imports 53% of the energy it consumes. this costs him over a billion euros a day. i have supported this report recommending a number of measures which will help to reduce the cost of energy bills, decarbonise the european economy and reduce europe's dependence on imported fossil fuels. this is a major project for the european union. the energy union must provide eu citizens with safe, sustainable and affordable energy. building it will require concerted efforts by member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply, making the best use of existing and renewable sources and moderating demand, but it is essential to go beyond this framework of 28 regulations and so many energy bundles to be more efficient and secure the eu's energy future. my group has played an important role in ensuring energy efficiency and renewable energy in the future european energy package. we have laid the foundations for a much more comprehensive and ambitious approach to the integration of energy systems and solutions.
the paris agreement on the environment is the most ambitious, most compelling and most hopeful agreement ever to mitigate global warming. with this agreement, almost 200 countries have taken a definitive step towards a low-carbon economy. the same ambition is reflected in the report: towards a european energy union in recent years, the vulnerability of europe to disruptions in energy supply has been explicitly addressed on a number of occasions. the eu today depends on the goodwill of foreign partners for half of its energy needs. this dependence makes energy the achilles' heel of our society and economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supply is not affected by the crisis. in addition, our dependence on conventional fossil fuels is far too great. developing european energy security that ensures sovereignty and environmental objectives is a priority for a strong economic and political position. i therefore support the ambitions of this report, which explicitly favours energy efficiency, renewable energy and the development of innovative, environmentally friendly energy sources, because a common greening of the european energy market will also have a positive impact on new employment.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report today in plenary allowed me to express my unconditional support for the amendments which consider that the use of hydraulic fracturing (i.e. shale gas) in the european union entails risks and adverse effects for the climate, the environment and public health, and jeopardises the achievement of the union's long-term decarbonisation target. i believe that, given the limited capacity of unconventional fuels to meet the energy demand of the union in the future and the high investment and costs involved in their exploitation, hydraulic fracturing is not a technology of the future and i have therefore, together with others, urged member states not to engage in any exploration or exploitation of shale gas.
in writing. ‒ the report makes it clear that we need a european and regional approach to linking energy networks between member states. this is necessary to accommodate the fluctuations in renewable energy. our delegation is also committed to energy efficiency. the best and cheapest kilowatt hour is the one that is not used. the resolution is on this line. the transition to a genuine energy market system is necessary. this requires the rapid elimination of market-distorting subsidies and taxes. parliament approved higher targets for renewable energy, efficiency and greenhouse gases. the delegation voted against this in order to honour the agreement between the member states. although some of the elements do not agree with our views, the overall package is a clear signal on how the energy union should be shaped.
in writing. ‒ i see the added value of a european energy union. this can only benefit the citizens of europe. that is why i voted in favour of this report. but as far as the nuclear aspect is concerned, i think it is necessary that nuclear research can still be subsidised.
in writing. ‒ without the free flow of energy across borders, there can be no real internal energy market in the eu. in this context, the restructuring of the electricity market which this resolution is concerned with is a correct and important step in this direction. the creation of electricity grids is essential to this, as it both promotes the spread of renewable energy and lowers electricity prices in europe.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which welcomes the commission's communication and strategy, which represent positive progress towards achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector and towards improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the union. parliament stated that renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, a sustainable energy mix that generates energy savings and an internal energy market that allows the free movement of energy are important means of ensuring a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system across the union, which promotes the creation of quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable, future-oriented economy. the resolution also stresses that electricity interconnection is one of the prerequisites for the completion of an integrated internal electricity market which, if well designed, will enable us to achieve our climate objectives, including the union's objective of becoming a leader in renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a number of measures, including better interconnection of electricity grids, in order to gradually build a genuine european electricity network. investing in the integration of the european electricity market could reduce prices by at least eur 2 per mwh and thus save almost eur 40 billion per year by 2030. this interconnection is crucial, both to achieve our climate goals and to make europe more competitive with cheaper electricity. the 10% interconnection target by 2020 is a very valuable contribution to the implementation of the energy union, but it can only be achieved if all member states achieve it at the same time. it will therefore be necessary to work with the 12 member states which remain below the 10% electricity interconnection target and are therefore largely isolated from the internal electricity market. i also believe it is essential that the eu sets ambitious, evidence-based and regionally agreed complementary interconnection targets for 2030.
in writing. europe can strengthen its independence from foreign energy suppliers by developing a finely-meshed integrated network of electricity highways across europe. this strategy of interconnectivity ensures the security of energy supply. it is also a way of making the best use of existing european energy resources and of developing a more coordinated internal energy market. we are thus better able to resist all kinds of disturbances and an internal energy market will ensure better pricing, which in turn will be beneficial to the strength of european companies. the development of energy hubs and energy highways will ensure that the growing share of energy from renewable energy sources is used in a more efficient way. with the increasing number of energy prosumers generating energy locally and in remote areas from environmentally friendly energy sources, it is essential to ensure that the energy generated is not wasted. north sea wind turbines will generate more than 8% of total electricity demand by 2030. then there is the need to make that energy available throughout europe. that is why i endorse in this report the commitment to systematically synchronise and extend the electricity connection with the 'external regions' of the european union, so that in the long term all countries will have access to an internal electricity market.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was invited to give its opinion on a report on the european electricity grid for 2020. in this report, parliament acknowledges in particular that the 10% electricity interconnection target is one of the preconditions for the completion of the integrated internal electricity market. the benefits of this market could be many, including increased security and reduced price volatility. the figure of at least eur 2/mwh is also mentioned in the report. while this 10% target by 2020 is a major objective, ambitious, evidence-based and regionally agreed complementary interconnection targets should be set for the medium term and certainly by 2030. it is now important that the commission and the member states give strong political support and approval to the energy network project in the north sea region.
in writing. ‒ better connections to the electricity networks between member states are needed not only to improve the eu's geopolitical energy position, but also to achieve the climate and energy objectives. the objective of connecting at least 10% of electricity production to the networks in other member states is therefore a step in the right direction. the greens want to set targets in advance for specific regions on the basis of scientific research. additional qualitative parameters are also needed, such as increased transparency and involvement of local actors and civil society organisations in 'projects of general interest'. the best available technologies should also be used to minimise the impact on the environment. belgium is one of the best-interconnected eu countries with 17% interconnectivity. four projects are in the pipeline, including the stevin plan to ensure that offshore wind farms can be connected to the fixed grid. but 12 member states have not yet reached the 10% target. i voted in favour of this report and the recommendations contained in it. the eu needs to achieve better, tailor-made and smart interconnection of electricity networks between countries. only then will it be possible to make the switch to renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ the strategic advantage of interconnectivity should lead to a more resilient and independent european network. moreover, greater interconnectivity will enable us to distribute renewable energy more effectively throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the eu launched the progress microfinance facility with a total volume of eur 205 million to ensure that socially and financially disadvantaged people have a chance to build a livelihood. progress is designed to make it easier for these people to set up micro-enterprises and to provide targeted support for these micro-enterprises. the present mid-term review report is positive. progress can help to achieve the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, even in the context of an economic crisis. i think this instrument is very useful because it helps, among other things, unemployed people, the socially vulnerable and young people who otherwise have little chance of obtaining credit to set up businesses and thus create employment themselves. progress supports micro-enterprises, which represent a large proportion of european employers. it's about helping yourself. progress thus fills a significant social and employment gap.
in writing. ‒ the eu set up the progress european microfinance facility in 2010 with a total budget of €205 million to provide socially and financially disadvantaged people in europe with the opportunity to build a decent life. the instrument is currently available in only 22 of the 28 member states, due to the diversity of levels of development of national economies within the union, the varying level of market interest and the regulatory conditions in place. the commission has drawn up an interim report on the instrument, which is still valid until 2016. in its resolution on the report, parliament noted that the impact in terms of job creation was less than expected, although it must be acknowledged that many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market in the absence of microcredit. the commission also proposes to reduce the number of rejected applications, to promote social enterprises and to cooperate with microfinance intermediaries. it also called on the member states to increase awareness of the activities linked to the programme.
in writing. the economic situation is prompting us to strengthen the financial instruments, in particular those for setting up new businesses. access to microfinance can play a significant role in this regard. even if the results in terms of job creation are lower than we expected, this mechanism still represents significant benefits because many people would not have been able to access credit in the absence of microcredit. the mechanism must therefore be improved. to this end, it is necessary, in particular, to ensure greater publicity for this instrument and to extend its geographical and sectoral scope so that it can cover all activities in the union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. microfinance is an important issue in that it contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, in particular in terms of social inclusion and reducing social inequalities. the european progress microfinance facility is therefore important in that it increases access to this type of microfinance. this instrument can thus be a real breath of fresh air for people who have lost or are in danger of losing their jobs, for those who are having difficulties entering or returning to the labour market, etc. this support will enable them to try to start or develop their own micro-enterprises. while this instrument has already proved its worth, i remain convinced that it is the duty of the member states to create contact points to make it better known to potential beneficiaries and citizens in general. i also regret that this instrument does not finance a large number of social enterprises. as this instrument will end in 2016, i can only hope that easi (the eu programme for employment and social innovation) will take over to support microfinance and social entrepreneurship in europe.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. it believes that a european microfinance facility can be very useful in the fight against social exclusion and welcomes a european policy supporting activation strategies. the n-va delegation fully supports initiatives that give oxygen to smes and facilitate their establishment and development. however, the obstacle in this report is that 'refugees, asylum seekers and migrants' are identified as a special target group of the financial facility, on which the commission should focus its efforts in particular. this could mean that the above groups - whose (long-term) residence is very uncertain - have access to social assistance from day one. the n-va delegation is concerned that this could set a precedent for further, immediate claims for all kinds of social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, because its objective is to help the less privileged people to find work. this facility will help people in europe to start businesses, learn new skills and find a job.
in writing. ‒ the complexity and diversity of the technical measures of the common fisheries policy, as well as the fact that they are spread over many different regulations, have contributed to making their application difficult for fishermen. similarly, the effectiveness of the multiannual plans adopted between 2002 and 2009 has been uneven. the present report, which i supported, therefore considers that to ensure the implementation of the objectives of this common policy, future technical measures should be simplified, contained in a clearly structured legal framework and developed on the basis of sound scientific advice reviewed by peers.
in writing. technical measures and multiannual plans are essential tools in the sustainable management of our marine resources. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and pirated goods, which was adopted by the council on 27 june, was based on the principle of the free movement of goods. it is crucial to make them as easy to read as possible in order to make them easier for fishermen to apply. parliament called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. parliament also recalls the objectives and principles of the new common fisheries policy reformed in 2013, such as environmental sustainability and the ecosystem approach. the union plays a crucial role in the sustainable management of fish stocks and the preservation of the marine environment. the necessary corollary to achieving sustainable fisheries is consistent and readable technical measures and multiannual plans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which considers it urgent to establish a coherent set of technical measures for the main basins, taking into account their respective specificities. in particular, given the landing obligation in force since 1 january 2015 which will be applied progressively to all fish stocks by 2019, the european parliament called for the provisions on technical measures to be sufficiently flexible to take into account real-time developments in fisheries and to further enable the fishing industry to put innovations in gear selectivity into practice.
in writing. ‒ the new cfp promotes sustainable fisheries, namely through the conservation of fish stocks and long-term productivity. a new structure for technical measures and multiannual plans will ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries sector and, moreover, contribute to achieving the most important objectives of the reformed cfp. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
after the review of tourist visas for asylum seekers and visa-free travel in turkey, the time has come. finally, a proposal to better guard the external borders. if greece does not act, europe will send in border guards and take over the guarding. excellent news provided that adequate manpower and equipment are effectively deployed. but one more fundamental observation: i heard that the intention is not to send back intercepted persons and therefore to organize pushbacks. i also heard that there is no intention of restricting the flow of people, let alone agreeing on a european ceiling. so without registration centres in greece, which apply such filtering, we will have to take in every asylum seeker who was intercepted and who sets foot on european soil. is that what we mean by border patrol? besides, is it morally defensible for families to drown themselves under the promise of open borders for the sake of an unquestioned right to asylum? the european border guard is a positive development, but it would like to see a little more political vision.
madam president, commissioner, you say that the european union will come to the aid of failing states, but that there is no question of it encroaching on their sovereignty, and you are sadly right. but i am one of those who still believe that because the external borders are common, they cannot be controlled piece by piece by each member state separately. most - or at least some - will not make it. i would therefore like to congratulate you on the proposals you have put forward, which i think are in the right direction. first of all, i welcome the transformation of frontex into a european agency for coast guard and border guard. i welcome the introduction of a european right of intervention in the event of a member state's manifest failure to do what other states legitimately expect it to do. i welcome the establishment of a european operational reserve of at least 1 500 men and women who can be mobilised to help a state which is overwhelmed, and i welcome it all the more, madam president, since i myself made this proposal when i was the rapporteur for the rabbit project and at the time neither the commission nor the member states wanted to examine it.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, let me start by expressing my thanks for your contribution to this debate today, for your support and also for your concerns and worries that we have shared together here. i can tell you that i took note of what was said, but let me first say this: what we have presented here today is not about entirely closing or opening borders, because neither is realistic. so on the points you have made, the question of not going far enough, today you must all admit that it is a very important step forward. this is a gradual process as europe moves forward. some of you referred to the fact that rules need to be better enforced. i fully agree with you – be it the schengen border code or asylum legislation, this commission, i can tell you, does its job in fully enforcing eu law. we are launching infringement proceedings wherever it is necessary, but sometimes rules also need to be adapted to a new reality. that does not mean, as i said during my introductory remarks, that we substitute member states’ responsibilities. i want to be clear on that. we do not touch member states’ sovereignty. what we have presented today has a strong preventive and supportive role to all member states with external borders. the next pressure might be in a totally different part of europe’s borders, so we must be well prepared. i think that you share with me the point of view that when the very first migratory refugee flows approached the european borders we were all caught by surprise – member states and the european union. the european union did not have a migration policy, it was something fragmented, scattered around within the commission, but now thanks to your support we have adopted the european agenda on migration and have taken many other decisions together: the relocation and resettlement scheme and the action plan against smugglers. so we have made a step forward, but today we are moving ahead in a bold way. let us be realistic and honest. the current crisis shows one thing, which is that no member state can manage this complex situation alone and our solidarity measures have not brought the necessary support either. this is why this agency’s staffing capacities and budget will be considerably reinforced. let me also be clear about protection – some of you raised the point, including ms keller – and say that we are not creating a fortress europe. the rights of people seeking international protection will never be put into question. we have a responsibility to offer protection to those in need and we will continue to do so. that is why it is so crucial to see this proposal as part of a comprehensive strategy which started, as i said before, with the adoption of the european agenda on migration, continued with many other initiatives – the implementation measures such as relocation mechanisms and the hotspots – and will be continued with measures allowing resettlement and legal migration. that implementation and relocation mechanism remains a priority for us although it has not worked properly so far, for reasons you know as well as i do. all member states must be part of the relocation scheme, and i would ask you to put pressure on your countries to do more, because if they all respond you will see spectacularly altered results on this. that is also why we have presented a recommendation for humanitarian admission for turkey, to offer legal and safe ways for people seeking protection to come to europe. je voudrais m'adresser à m. deprez. je suis vraiment honoré de votre soutien à cette proposition, soyez sûr que nous sommes conscients de votre initiative qui date déjà de quelques années. vous avez également raison lorsque vous dites que, si cette agence avait existé aujourd'hui, nous aurions pu éviter que la pression migratoire ne se transforme en crise; tel est l'objectif pour l'avenir. en ce qui concerne ce que vous venez de dire, monsieur engel, vous avez utilisé le terme approprié: notre proposition est avant tout logique. c'est la conséquence logique du fait que nous avons des frontières communes européennes et que notre première préoccupation est de préserver la libre circulation de nos citoyens, avec tous ses bienfaits, dans la zone schengen. puisque certains députés m'ont posé quelques questions en grec, permettez-moi de leur répondre dans la même langue. κύριε πρόεδρε, οι ευρωβουλευτές που έθεσαν τα ερωτήματα πρωτύτερα είναι πρώτα απ' όλα έμπειροι νομικοί και έμπειροι πολιτικοί. πιστεύω ότι θα συμφωνήσουν μαζί μου ότι τίποτα, μα απολύτως τίποτα, δεν μπορεί να συμβεί σε ένα κράτος μέλος χωρίς τη συγκατάθεσή του. κανείς δεν μπορεί να του επιβάλει υποχρεωτικά τη συνεργασία με τρίτη χώρα αν το ίδιο δεν το επιθυμεί. αυτό είναι σαφές από τη νομοθετική πρόταση που υποβάλαμε. η κυριαρχία των κρατών μελών δεν θίγεται. επίσης, θα συμφωνήσουν μαζί μου, ότι χωρίς ουσιαστική αλληλεγγύη κανένα κράτος μέλος δεν μπορεί μόνο του να αντιμετωπίσει τις σημερινές προκλήσεις, πολλώ δε μάλλον, τις μεγαλύτερες που είναι βέβαιον ότι θα προκύψουν στο μέλλον. θα συμφωνήσουν επίσης, ελπίζω, ότι ήταν καιρός κάτι επιτέλους να αλλάξει. όσον αφορά στην ελλάδα, ο οργανισμός που θα ιδρύσουμε μελλοντικά θα ενισχύσει ουσιαστικά τις δυνατότητές της να προλαμβάνει κρίσεις σαν τη σημερινή και να διαχειρίζεται τα σύνορά της που ταυτίζονται και νομικά με τα ευρωπαϊκά. δύο είναι οι κεντρικοί στόχοι: η ενίσχυση των κρατών μελών που βρίσκονται στη λεγόμενη «πρώτη γραμμή» και φυσικά η διασφάλιση της αρχής της ελεύθερης μετακίνησης, για όλους ανεξαίρετα τους πολίτες, μέσα στα όρια της ζώνης schengen. θέλω να ξεκαθαρίσω ότι δεν βάζουμε άλλους να φυλάνε τα ελληνικά σύνορα, γιατί τα ελληνικά σύνορα είναι και ευρωπαϊκά. κατά συνέπεια, ένας ευρωπαϊκός οργανισμός, κομμάτι του οποίου όπως είναι φυσικό είναι και η ελλάδα, θα ενισχύσει την προστασία των εξωτερικών συνόρων της χώρας και θα βοηθήσει στην καλύτερη οργάνωση των μεταναστευτικών ροών, οι οποίες δεν θα σταματήσουν. ας μην είμαστε αφελείς, ούτε και υπεραισιόδοξοι. εκτιμώ ότι στο μέλλον θα αυξηθούν. γι' αυτό πρέπει να είμαστε, συνολικά, καλύτερα οργανωμένοι. οι συνθήκες συμμετοχής του οργανισμού σε κάθε χώρα προϋποθέτουν την ύπαρξη συμφωνίας μεταξύ της χώρας και του οργανισμού. νομίζω ότι όλοι έχουμε να ωφεληθούμε από μια τέτοια εξέλιξη και ειδικότερα εκείνες οι χώρες που έχουν το πρόβλημα λόγω και της γεωγραφικής και της γεωπολιτικής θέσεώς τους. αυτή η πρωτοβουλία που αναλάβαμε είναι στη βάση ακόμη περισσότερης ευρώπης και στοχεύει σε περισσότερη ασφάλεια για την ευρώπη και σε πιο αποτελεσματική λειτουργία της όλης στρατηγικής και πολιτικής μας για την διαχείριση των προσφυγικών και μεταναστευτικών ρευμάτων. πιστεύω ότι, συνολικά, το κοινοβούλιο, όπως έχει κάνει μέχρι τώρα, θα μας βοηθήσει και θα μας στηρίξει. επιθυμώ να τονίσω ότι τίποτα δεν θα μπορούσε να είχε πετύχει η συλλογική μας προσπάθεια να αντιμετωπίσουμε αυτήν την κατάσταση τον τελευταίο καιρό εάν το ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο δεν είχε επιδείξει ευαισθησία, δεν είχε αναλάβει πρωτοβουλίες και δεν είχε συνειδητά στηρίξει πολιτικές ευρωπαϊκής ενόρασης. σήμερα, πιστεύω ότι συμφωνείτε μαζί μου πως η ευρώπη κάνει ένα ακόμα τολμηρό βήμα προς τα εμπρός στην πορεία της προς την πολιτική ολοκλήρωση.
in writing. with the proposal for a european border and coast guard, europe is finally stepping up its response to the refugee crisis. it is not too early, because there are currently major gaps in external border control. greece in particular is dropping too many flags, which is causing member states to threaten to temporarily close their internal borders. frontex must now be developed into an effective common border and coast guard with more manpower, more resources and a permanent corps of 1500 border guards. the new border agency is to intervene when external border controls fail in a member state. the agency should also play a much more active role in the return policy. we cannot leave the burden and responsibility to the border member states alone: we must control our common external borders together. the ministers of the interior must now move quickly to implement this proposal. we must finally understand that europe is not the problem, but part of the solution. we have wasted more than a decade of delay in building a european border guard and the problems have only grown. a strong eu must tackle the refugee crisis together and not fail to provide the necessary resources.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, this is the last strasbourg session. it is the end of the year and i am not exaggerating when i say that 2015 was a terrible year; if you consider the war in the middle east, the refugee crisis and the euro crisis. but what happened in paris last week is a real game-changer, and very important, because it will give us reason to be optimistic for the future and that is what we need. it is very important. paris, the city of light, is now also the city of hope. that is very good. the most positive outcome of paris is the fact that nearly all states – and all states means also developing countries and emerging economies – are committing themselves to the necessary efforts to tackle climate change. in that sense, this is the first universal climate agreement that we have. we can all be proud of that. the level of ambition shown in paris, and the agreement on it, cannot be underestimated. we not only have the overall aim of holding global average temperatures steady, we need the 2°c target, and much more ambitious objectives as well. but the agreement is to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c, and that means that we around the world and in the eu need to ramp up our efforts. because with the building blocks of the intended nationally determined contributions we will not build the climate-proof house we want, so extra effort will be necessary. therefore i ask the commissioner not to wait too long, and i propose continuing our work within the high-ambition coalition which you formed, commissioner, in the run-up to paris and which contributed to a large extent to the success in the cop21. we must present, together with our partners in the high-ambition coalition, timely, ambitious pledges, and that means more ambitious pledges in the eu. we have to prepare for that. so let us be clear. paris was not an end point; our work to build a carbon-free, renewable and circular economy begins now.
first of all, we should like to congratulate commissioner cañete, his team and the team of mr delbeke on this achievement. it is the result of years of work, great respect for it and for the result. that agreement, that result, the agreement of paris, is of course not perfect, we all know that, but still, it was unthinkable until recently that this would come out. and the formal commitment of 100 billion euros for the developing countries is of course a very positive point, but above all the five-yearly review is also a very good thing. the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly the signal coming from paris. commissioner, the fact that the industry in europe in particular, but also the whole world, all the companies, the economy, the financial institutions, have been given a clear signal that we must say goodbye to the fossil technology, to the energy sector of the past. the media around the world are unanimously agreed today and yesterday that the road to co2-neutral or co2-free reduction is on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that's very unfortunate. but i think i cannot take up that fight, that we must certainly concentrate on aviation next year to get that global agreement.
in writing. this climate agreement is going to change the world. it's the biggest step forward in climate science in 20 years. now 37 countries have to take action on climate change, soon it will be 195. of course, the text could always have been better, but it is a historic step, as almost the whole world is committing to tackling climate change. the new agreement says we must keep the temperature rise well below two degrees. a degree and a half is the goal. the latter is necessary if we are to be sure that no islands disappear into the sea. the eu will now have to do more. we have always based our policies on a two-degree rise in temperature and on the very outdated idea that we are the only ones fighting climate change. flanders and belgium have been lagging behind on climate policy for years and will now have to accelerate. almost 200 countries are going to implement national climate plans. the new agreement is a back-up for sustainable business. in the past week, countless new initiatives have been launched, releasing hundreds of billions of dollars in funding for research and sustainable projects. the world is realizing the dire need to protect the earth and our children.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague anneliese dodds and all the rapporteurs on this work. i think the report - you have heard it - contains specific and ambitious measures to strengthen the convergence of corporate tax policies and, i would say indirectly, to fight effectively against tax evasion by multinationals. i think that this is a constant in this european parliament since the swissleaks and luxleaks scandals broke; we have seen very quickly that we must react by implementing a number of coordinated measures with the same objective: finally, more tax justice at european level. i look forward to the vote on the niedermayer/dodds report tomorrow. we can also mention our ambitious report on the taxe special committee, whose mandate has been extended by six months - which i welcome - but we can also mention the report on the automatic exchange of rulings between member states, the report on taxation in developing countries and the report on shareholder rights. all of this to tell you that if the evil is known, we also know the remedies. it is now up to the commission and the member states to take up our proposals and, of course, to translate them into applicable rules. we have heard many fine speeches, and that is very good. but today, we're waiting for the deed. i think that the vast majority of our fellow europeans are rightly confused by this situation. we have seen this recently again: in my own country, belgium, the press has revealed to us that the belgian tax authorities have opened, at the end of last week, an investigation into the very advantageous agreements concluded between the grand duchy of luxembourg and belgian smes, providing for tax rates of between 1.5 and 0%. mr juncker, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the 28 heads of state and government, show me that i am wrong, show me that i am wrong to think that you are so little concerned. let's stop talking and start doing! i am counting on you, commissioner, to move forward. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". yes, i think that, really, we will only be able to fight tax evasion with harmonization. as long as there are 28 different tax systems in the member states, we will not get away with it. then you can't support us. if the epp or alde do not want to do this, that is their choice. personally, i think we should do it. we have been promised improvements for years, and for years there have been billions of euros that have not been returned to the public coffers. if it doesn't work, we'll reassess our proposal in a few years, but rather than saying it won't work, i think it's high time we moved on and solved this problem.
small businesses are already paying too much tax and large companies too little, and that is hurting people. add luxleaks to that, and you've got the perfect cocktail for international dating. unfortunately, the commission and the european parliament have taken advantage of this context to push their own agenda forward and talk about tax harmonization. i have already touched on this in my comments to the tax committee. i have broken a lance for healthy fiscal competition. does this mean that we should do nothing, that we should change nothing? of course you didn't. we need to tackle and simplify our taxation so that it becomes easier to do business across borders. we must also, above all, close the loopholes in our tax system, and i am looking at what the oecd has developed, the beps action plan. let us look here in this parliament, but also in the member states, at how we can implement these recommendations as quickly as possible and finally give everyone the solutions they need.
i very much welcome the proposal for a european law on accessibility. it is, of course, only a small part of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i therefore expect the commission to do what is necessary in other areas of its competence. the fact is that there is still no real single market for disabled people. so we need to focus on removing all the remaining obstacles, like our own website. companies still face additional costs when offering their products across europe because of the variety and sometimes conflicting national rules and standards. of course, this requires a good balance between the interests of consumers with disabilities and those of businesses. this would give a major boost to economic growth, as there are more than 80 million disabled people in the union. this number will rise to 120 million by 2020 due to ageing. so better accessibility benefits the whole of society. i am sure you can count on me to deliver a substantially strong european accessibility law. it really should have a positive impact on our lives.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, yesterday i posted two short films on facebook as an introduction to today’s debate. one short film was on how syrian refugees have been treated on the hungarian border in recent months, and a second short film showed how mr trudeau, the canadian prime minister, welcomed the 25 000 refugees who arrived in canada a couple of days ago. i have to tell you that, if you look at the pictures next to each other, the difference could not be greater. it is even shocking. it is not the case that you can enter canada without any problem. it is very clear that there are border controls in canada, but the pictures show that they are received there in a decent way – in a human way – with compassion and not with fear or hate, by entering through a normal door and not on their knees under barbed wire, as in europe. so that is the main reason why, mr juncker, i fully applaud – and my group fully applauds – the commission’s proposal to set up a european border and coast guard to stop what is happening today, and to stop what is an insane competition between some member states which, as in a game of ping-pong, are moving the refugees from one neighbouring border to another. it is also to stop the chaotic, not to say sometimes non—existent, management of some of our borders as, for example, in the case in greece. so i believe that your proposal is key. this european border and coast guard is key because, without it, it could be the end of schengen and it could also be the end of the european project. i even think that countries which do not want to participate in the european border and coast guard – or are not willing to cooperate in this – have no place in the schengen area. so my plea to the european council now – because the commission has done its work – is to decide on it. you don’t do this. at any rate there is nothing about it in the conclusions – and the advantage for the council is that they have already reached their conclusions before they meet with each other, that is the difference between them and the european parliament; we meet and then we conclude; there they do it beforehand. in paragraph 2, they say that they are going to ‘examine’ it. why is it not possible, mr schmit? why is it not possible to decide that the european council is in favour of a european border and coast guard and then to start to examine – together with the two institutions and based on a fast-track procedure – the commission’s proposals? no, it is not possible. it is ‘examine’. well, i hope that you come back to debrief us on the european council, together with mr. tusk, and that this will be changed in your conclusions, so that at least the principle of the commission proposal is agreed to. that brings me to my second point: the fight against terrorism. let me also say here that it is not your fault, i think that mr tusk’s services have prepared it, and the conclusions are completely weak. the only thing about the fight against terrorism is that on thursday and friday you are going to have enhanced information sharing. then there are two pages about all the stuff on enhanced information sharing that you are going to do in the coming days. well, we do not need enhanced information sharing. we need mandatory information sharing as fast as possible. that is my plea to the commission. is it not possible for the commission to come forward with what i call a ‘horizontal mandatory sharing of information’ clause? you could do it by a regulation, for example. by horizontal, it means that it should apply to all databases that we process. that could be the schengen information system, ecris, the europol databases, the frontex databases and the 28 new pnr databases. why is it not possible for you to say in one regulation that, from now on, there will be a horizontal mandatory sharing of information flow between all these databases in europe? that is my second point. my third and last point concerns the point made by mr kamall. i do not know whether he is playing mr jekyll or mr hyde, whether he is a british conservative or the leader of the ecr group, on brexit. my appeal, mr kamall, is to look at it in a positive, constructive and offensive, rather than defensive, way. in my opinion, it is an opportunity to reform europe. so let us add to the four requests of the british government all the in—depth reforms we desperately need in europe: new governance for the eurozone, new tools for the geopolitical challenges we face. why not a defence community? i agree with the british prime minister, mr cameron, when he rejects an ever-closer union. we do not need an ever-closer union. we desperately need a federal union – that is very clear – between the european member states. that is what we need. so i agree with him. finally, to mr weber: it is true that there were good things in 2015 as well, and we have made progress, but for the sake of our health, let us make 2016 better than 2015 to make europe great. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – so i can no longer play octopus? maybe a shark would suit you better: it could eat you up. that said, the people in europe – the 500 million citizens in europe – know very well that their future does not lie in retreating behind national borders. the world of tomorrow will be a world dominated by china, india, the us and the russian federation, and if we want to play a role we have to do it together or not at all.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe still has at least one world championship to defend, and that is the title of unfinished construction. we have made a federal common currency without setting up a federal government with a federal budget. we now realize that this is not working and are therefore trying, in haste, to remedy these fundamental design flaws. we have created a zone of free movement of citizens to which we are extremely attached - as we are to the single currency - but without establishing a common management not only of the frontiers but also of migration and asylum policy. i was therefore expecting very sincerely - i am a little naive, i know the greens are like that - that the commission would propose yesterday a significant step forward which would allow us to remedy the problem. in other words, a step whereby all of us, the schengen member states, would decide to entrust a european agency with both the surveillance of our borders and the means to do so, whether that be border surveillance, the reception and registration of asylum seekers and migrants, the fight against organised crime, particularly against smugglers, and rescue at sea. anyway, this is what i expected. instead we are given a proposal which basically amounts to creating a kind of emergency response corps to help member states overwhelmed by a wave of asylum or migration requests. now, this is a situation that we are obviously familiar with and it seems to me quite natural that we should be able to come to the aid of a member state. but the problem is that, when you read the proposal, you see that this force could be deployed in a member state without being requested, but that it would be placed under its responsibility. let me explain: a member state would have a border police force arrive and take over the management of its borders without having asked for it. let us imagine for a moment that there are violations of european law, of human rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there is, it seems to me, a fundamental manufacturing defect here, which is a serious breach, i believe, of the most elementary principles of law. so we understand that your copy will have to be seriously revised if we want to make it something that holds up a little bit. in any case, mr president juncker, i would like to remind you of one of your commitments which you have repeatedly made to this house: you said that a legal - i say 'legal' - path to europe must be established. if you want to put an end to the smugglers' business, if you want to put an end to these permanent dramas at sea, you need a legal path. and i didn't find it in what you proposed. in any case, the answer cannot be - and i would like us not to forget it - that of president tusk, who, in his finest pen, wrote ten days ago that in fact, we could perfectly well envisage imprisoning - i say imprisoning - asylum seekers in europe for 18 months. indeed, when you compare his attitude with that of your liberal colleague trudeau in canada, you see that there is more than one nuance. i therefore find this attitude unacceptable and unworthy of the president of the european council and a member of the epp. finally, it is true that - i quote gabi zimmer's comments on turkey - you have the art of making a carpet in front of our friend erdogan, this new putin of the sublime porte. it is still incredible that we go and make salaamelek to a guy who jails his journalists, who sacks his police and judges when they don't do what he asks them to do, who, personally, prosecutes journalists and attacks them before what is left of the judiciary in turkey, and who starts waging war against his own people, all because we want him to keep as many refugees as possible at home, i find it unworthy. i would like to emphasize one last point. we have an agreement which we welcome, which came into being in paris last week, and i would like to see it not underestimated because in europe we are told that we have always been the leaders. what i see is that all the european policies adopted here have been based on the idea that we have to limit climate change to two degrees - by the way, they don't even do that. but what was agreed in paris is well below two degrees and as close as possible to one and a half degrees. this calls for a review now - and i say now - of the policies adopted by the european union, in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i agree with you completely, mr pirinski. i note, at any rate in my country, and i know that this is particularly the case in france, that the effects of social dumping which the free movement of workers allows are one of the main factors in the emergence of parties such as the front national in france. so this is a very serious concern for many of our fellow citizens, and we must find a solution. but this solution cannot be at the expense of the free movement of workers, which i consider to be a basic principle of our european union. it must take account of the interests of both the countries considered to be developed and those of the countries to the east and south of the european union. everyone should be able to benefit from it, which is why there are no simple solutions. nevertheless, this debate is extremely urgent and i regret that the commission has postponed this debate once again.
blue-card question. – ms dodds, i heard what you said. i think that your prime minister has got himself into a corner by asking things that he knows pretty well cannot be achieved, especially in terms of freedom of movement. i believe that the real question that the british people have to answer is whether they believe that they will be stronger on their own, being 1% of the global population, albeit with trident submarines – i am not sure that gives you a lot – or by sharing sovereignty to be part of a bloc that can really have influence in this world. (cries of ‘rubbish!’ from the efdd group)
it is the last council of the year under the luxembourg presidency and it has been a terrible year. we don't have to explain that, we all know that. there is one very important bright spot, and that is of course the climate agreement, with an incredibly good luxembourg presidency and an incredibly good commission working together. that's very commendable. but that also means that we have to start translating that into even more ambitious goals. that's something you should have a good discussion about at the council. i would also like to take this opportunity to talk about something else and to address the commission in particular. there is a new report from amnesty international on the situation of refugees in turkey, and it is shocking, if i may say so. human rights are being violated on a large scale and at least the idea is being given that this is also happening with support, not of course with our support, but with financial support from the european union. we cannot always debate human rights with fine words here and not take action in turkey where it is needed. i therefore ask the commission and, of course, the council to take the necessary action in this respect.
in writing. ‒ andrea enria, acting president of the european banking authority, was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term. in accordance with the rules, the board of supervisors of the eba may propose once to extend the term of office of the chairperson for five years subject to confirmation by the european parliament. this request was made and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, after hearing the person concerned, gave a very broadly favourable opinion. i approved this extension.
in writing. following the banking and financial crisis, the european union established the european banking authority, which is responsible for ensuring a high level of prudential regulation and supervision in order to ensure financial stability within the european union and the smooth functioning of the banking sector. this independent authority has been chaired by andrea enria since its creation in 2011. the president is accountable to the european parliament, and we voted to extend his mandate. his background and experience convinced me to approve this new mandate.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the mandate of andrea enria as president of the european banking authority for a further five-year term. as a reminder, the european banking authority is an independent authority of the european union which works to ensure an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. its main objectives are to maintain financial stability in the european union and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and smooth functioning of the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted in favour of extending the mandate. i also voted in favour of this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the five-year extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority because it seemed to me the most appropriate choice.
in writing. ‒ gabriel bernardino, acting president of the eaapp, was appointed in 2011 for a 5-year term. in accordance with the rules, the board of supervisors of eiopa may propose once for a five-year extension of the term of office of the chairperson subject to confirmation by the european parliament. this request was made and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, after hearing the person concerned, gave a very broadly favourable opinion. i approved this extension.
in writing. the 2008 financial crisis demonstrated the many failings of the european financial system. one of the elements was the insurance sector. the european union has set up the european insurance and occupational pensions authority to strengthen the stability of the sector. it is a body which coordinates national authorities and sets regulatory and technical standards for insurance companies and intermediaries. gabriel bernardino has been the chairman of the agency since its creation. after a hearing in the committee responsible, we approved his renewal for another five years.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardino as president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a further five-year term. as a reminder, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, based in frankfurt, was established in 2010 to prevent risks of destabilisation of the insurance sector.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted in favour of extending the mandate. i also voted in favour of this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the five-year extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority because it seemed to me the most appropriate choice.
in writing. ‒ steven maijoor, acting chairman of esma, was appointed in 2011 for a 5-year term. in accordance with the rules, the board of supervisors of esma may propose once for a five-year extension of the term of office of the chairperson subject to confirmation by the european parliament. this request was made and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, after hearing the person concerned, gave a very broadly favourable opinion. i approved this extension.
in writing. the 2008 financial crisis demonstrated the many failings of the european financial system. the european union, seeking to strengthen the stability of this sector, has established the european financial markets authority. the role of the ecb is to assess investor and market risks and to ensure financial stability. the vote was on the re-election of president steven maijoor, who has been extended for a second term.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the mandate of steven maijoor as president of the european securities and markets authority for a further five-year term. the european financial markets authority, based in paris, was created in 2010 to preserve the stability of european financial markets and fill gaps in financial supervision.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted in favour of extending the mandate. i also voted in favour of this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the five-year extension of the mandate of the chair of the european securities and markets authority because it seemed to me the most appropriate choice.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the future international agreement establishing operational and strategic cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina. the agreement should, however, be based on the future europol regulation, which will give the european parliament more powers and guarantee better safeguards, particularly in the area of personal data protection. i am against the conclusion of such an agreement until the new europol regulation is in force. while we are totally in favour of cooperation between europol and bosnia-herzegovina, we wanted to send a clear signal and defend the role of parliament on such essential issues as cooperation in the fight against crime and trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft decision adopting the implementing rules governing europol's relations with its partners, in particular the exchange of personal data and classified information, and in particular articles 5 and 6 thereof. the european commission will, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, assess the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular those relating to data protection.
in writing. ‒ as regards the vote on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, i followed the first vote in the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this egf assistance of eur 442 293 to help the socio-occupational reintegration of 108 workers who lost their jobs at the irish aircraft maintenance and repair company pwai. this will also help 108 young people under 25 who have no job, no qualifications or no training to find a job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request by ireland for redundancies in the aircraft maintenance sector within pwa international and one of its suppliers. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement between the ccipb and pwai was concluded in the absence of any agreement between the ccipb and pwai. the world's future air fleet will probably be dominated by narrow-body, single-aisle aircraft of the airbus 32 type. this growth is expected to come from asia, where the aviation sector is expanding and older aircraft types need to be replaced by narrow-body types. europe, and ireland in particular, has therefore been severely affected by the trend towards localising maintenance, repair and overhaul activities close to aviation expansion centres and by the negative effects of global trade agreements. the aim is therefore to help 108 dismissed employees. the aid will amount to eur 442 293 and will allow the co-financing of active labour market measures focusing on training, career guidance and planning.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation. the downside of this is job losses in less competitive sectors. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but also has an eye on the taxpayer who pays the bill. moreover, social policy should be a competence of the member states in the first instance. a european transfer union is not a panacea for tackling unemployment. in particular, structural reforms are needed to restart economic growth. the n-va meps therefore abstained from voting on this dossier.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to mobilise eur 442 292 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 108 workers made redundant in two companies active in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment. these redundancies are due to the continuing fundamental changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. ireland, which specialises in the maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro) sector, is experiencing a strong shift of this type of activity to the centres of aviation expansion, mainly asia.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of ireland's request for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies at pwa international (pwai) and a supplier in ireland. i remain convinced that the globalisation adjustment fund is a necessary solidarity tool to help workers affected by the opening of the economy to globalisation. i can only hope that the amount of eur 442 293 will finance measures to help people find a job, to help them train or reorient themselves, and to help them to set up or become selfemployed. the loss of a job remains a difficult test both from a personal and family point of view and europe must play its part in enabling these people to regain professional stability as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because we need to support ireland quickly and efficiently to help the dismissed employees of pwa international ltd to find another job.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution rejecting the list of invasive alien species proposed by the commission. the draft union list fails to address the issue of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner, which would protect biodiversity and reduce and mitigate the impact that these species may have on human health or the economy.
in writing. invasive alien species pose a threat to biodiversity as well as to fishing and agricultural activities. the union establishes a list of those species in order to better control them by imposing restrictions, in particular on their import, sale and use. the establishment of such a list is an essential step in the european biodiversity strategy. opposing this list, which is due to be adopted by january 2016 at the latest, would delay the fight against these invasive species and the implementation of the european strategy. my group and i did not support the objection to this list. the aim was not to block this first list, which will be regularly reviewed and may be supplemented in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have again voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern, in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which was adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection because i think that the european commission should not be blocked in this matter. the relevant list is based on scientific research. but this list will have to be reviewed and supplemented regularly in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ by its implementing decision of 4 december 2015, the european commission sought to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified and glyphosate tolerant maize nk603xt25. in view of the fact that the world health organisation has declared the weedkiller glyphosate 'probably carcinogenic to humans', i welcome the motion for a resolution calling for the measure to be lifted. in addition to my criticism of herbicides and gmos, which are harmful to people and the environment, i also regret that the commission has ignored the rejection of the act adopted by the envi committee. although the decision was taken in accordance with the current legal situation, the gmo authorisation procedure is in urgent need of reform.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution which rejects the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of a genetically modified maize and recalls that the european parliament rejected the legislative proposal of 22 april 2015 amending regulation 1829/2003 because, if their cultivation necessarily takes place on the territory of a member state, trade in gmos does not know borders, which means that a national right of 'refusal' of use and sale, as proposed by the commission, would have been impossible to exercise without reintroducing border controls on imports. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to draw up a new legislative initiative on the authorisation of gmos.
in writing. ‒ this resolution not only protests against the admission of a specific gmo to the european market, but also calls for the introduction of a de facto moratorium on the approval of all gmos until a new approval procedure is adopted. the n-va cannot support this resolution for the following reasons: the european approval procedure for gmos is particularly strict and rigorous. a robust and independent risk assessment by the european food safety authority (efsa) plays a crucial role in this regard. the n-va strongly believes in science-based and evidence-based policy. the text before us is contrary to this and would undermine the credibility of the efsa. the commission has not found that the exporting producer concerned has not been able to demonstrate that the measures in question were necessary and proportionate to remedy the situation. the law is clear: if the member states do not reach a qualified majority (neither for nor against the approval of a gmo), the european commission is empowered to approve gmos on the basis of a positive opinion from efsa. it is noted that there is no scientific consensus on glyphosate. the debate on this controversial substance must be pursued further and thoroughly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am opposed to the european commission's decision to allow the import of gm maize nk603 x t25 into europe. this gmo, developed by the multinational monsanto and intended for livestock, is tolerant to the pesticide round-up, another monsanto product whose active substance, glyphosate, has been classified as a probable carcinogen by the who. in these circumstances and in accordance with the precautionary principle, it seems to me unthinkable to authorize the marketing of nk603. i also consider that the current procedures for authorising gmos in the union do not allow for certainty that the gmo in question is not dangerous to human health. the european authorities (efsa) rely mainly on studies by manufacturers to approve or not approve gmos. this can have alarming results. european procedures for the evaluation of gmos should be revised to become fully independent of the industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon with 402 other meps in favour of the objection against the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603 x t25 for use in animal feed. i have already done so in the committee on the environment two weeks ago. while this maize has passed the ramps of efsa control, as observers will always see, its specific nature - it is designed to tolerate glyphosate, a widely used chemical whose safety has not been proven - warrants the utmost caution. other arguments have of course been put forward for this objection to be adopted, even though the ep cannot formally object to it. it is legitimate to question the haste with which the commission authorized the project on friday 4 december without waiting for the plenary to decide on its admissibility. this is a provocation which undermines the loyal cooperation between the institutions in the follow-up of legislative acts. what can be said about jean-claude juncker's outright repudiation of his promise made in july 2014 in the house of commons to change the current system of authorization of gmos, both for import and cultivation, because it is undemocratic. fortunately, it is not too late to reverse the trend!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this objection, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which opposed, on 1 december 2015, this draft implementing act authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize nk603xt25. i also supported amendments which consider that the decision of the european executive to proceed with its implementing decision when the draft was rejected by the competent parliamentary committee before the vote in plenary is in breach of article 13 (2) of the treaty on european union as regards loyal cooperation between the institutions.
in writing. - i am in full agreement with the rejection of gmos whose safety is not guaranteed. the industry continues to mock the consumer. no impact analysis is reliable; we have studies that say everything and the opposite. the precautionary principle must be the rule in order to protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ taxes should be paid where economic activities are carried out, where profits are made and where public services and infrastructure are used. the examination of the luxleaks case has clearly demonstrated that aggressive tax planning and profit shifting by multinational corporations, which are favoured and exploited by the excessive complexity and differences between national tax systems, lead to tax avoidance and unfair competition. the latter also because, in particular, smes, family businesses and the self-employed are rarely able to shift their profits from high-tax countries to low-tax countries and to engage in aggressive taxation, thereby reducing their overall tax base. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. i therefore support this legislative resolution which commits the european commission to present concrete proposals, inter alia, on greater transparency and on bringing member states closer together on corporate taxation, information exchange and a legal framework for the protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. the luxleaks revelations have underlined the importance of promoting transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies within the union. the european parliament has adopted a series of recommendations in this regard, which i welcome. enhancing transparency in the area of corporate taxation must be a priority for the european union. it will in particular improve tax collection and, more broadly, strengthen citizens' trust in tax systems. the report makes a number of proposals which the commission and the member states should take into account. it is time for the union to have effective legislation to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. the single representation of the union on the international scene is also a priority for the european union in international tax regimes.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament was called upon to deliver its opinion on an important report to promote transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies. the report is an important follow-up to the 'luxleaks' affairs, and its recommendations are intended to prevent companies from crossing european borders in order to reduce their tax bills. i voted in favour of this report to demand that the commission react quickly to the aggressive tax optimisation being orchestrated by multinationals in particular. we cannot accept these practices, as the repercussions for citizens and society as a whole are major. for example, i believe it is urgent that the commission should put forward a proposal for the annual reports of companies to include country by country their profits, taxes and subsidies and that this information should be made public. it is also urgent that the commission should make a proposal on a common corporate tax base. finally, i also voted in favour of strengthening the protection of whistleblowers, which i believe is currently insufficient.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the european parliament asked the european commission to submit, as soon as possible, a proposal for a new mechanism requiring each member state to inform without delay the other member states and the commission of its intention to adopt any new tax measure of a type of reduction, relief, exemption or advantage which is likely to have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in that member state or on the tax base of another member state.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and fraud requires more action at european level. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs more transparency and coordination of the tax policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this own-initiative report which underlines china's growing role on the global geopolitical stage and in economic and financial relations, but which notes the very worrying worsening of the human rights situation in the country in recent years. the report notes that the freedom of human rights activists in the country, lawyers, journalists, bloggers, academics and various representatives of civil society has never been so restricted in years!
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it covers all aspects of eu-china relations and calls for both to work more closely together to address global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance. i support the call for the strengthening of the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. to keep a clear picture of the rapidly evolving relationship between the two sides, i support the request to the commission to produce an annual report on the development of eu-china relations and to ensure that human rights are given high priority. i also support the request to ask the commission to complain forcefully to the chinese authorities about the adoption of repressive regulations, such as the draft law on the management of foreign ngos and the new draft law on cybersecurity.
the occasion for this report is the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the eu and china. while we acknowledge that china has made progress in many areas over the past decades, we must remain alert to a number of developments that could adversely affect bilateral relations. china has worked its way up to economic power over the last 20 years. thanks to this economic "boost", more than 600 million chinese have achieved a better socioeconomic status. the other side is that europe is not taking enough advantage of china's economic leap and should be more concerned about the obstacles faced by european companies, such as lack of access to the chinese market and poor protection of intellectual property rights. the geostrategic effects of china's global investment policy and its investment activities in the eu and the neighbourhood are still underestimated. tangible improvements in the rule of law and respect for human rights remain insufficient, despite the commitment in march 2014 to deepen contacts between the eu and china in this area. i also supported the report because it also calls for greater cooperation in the fight against international terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that closer cooperation between the european union and china is desirable in order to face global challenges. these include terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance. to do this, we must move towards a new partnership and cooperation agreement based in particular on respect for human rights. because while china's economy is growing steadily, we cannot say the same about respect for human rights. in voting for this report, i urge the european union to speak out forcefully and with conviction against the governmental measures taken in this country to restrict freedom of association and expression. while china remains an important economic partner, we cannot ignore its social and environmental shortcomings. let us ensure that the chinese authorities provide solutions to these problems as quickly as possible. it should be noted that this report does not address the question of whether the european union will recognize china as a market economy, on which i will remain uncompromising.
in writing. ‒ i also stress, as my colleagues have done, that china is an important partner, that it is making efforts and that we must work with it. i would nevertheless urge the eeas to ensure that human rights are high on the agenda of relations and dialogues with china. on the other hand, trade agreements should not be an excuse for the introduction of isds, even light!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with many aspects of the eu-china relationship. if we are to tackle global problems, we will have to work better with china. that is why i support this report, which calls for new cooperation agreements based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ the number of people who rely on humanitarian food aid to survive has more than doubled since 2004, rising to over 100 million in 2015. humanitarian crises affect more than 250 million people. it is high time that a global, comprehensive and long-term solution to the mass movements of people fleeing war was found. the role and credibility of europe on the global humanitarian scene are also at stake. i therefore supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit.
in writing. ‒ more than 250 million people are now affected by humanitarian crises and nearly 60 million people are displaced, half of them children. parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules. humanitarian issues require protection measures that are people-oriented and based on human rights. the resolution, which i have approved, also calls for a comprehensive, lasting and global solution to the mass exodus of refugees from conflict zones, not without recalling europe's role and credibility on the world humanitarian scene.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is alarming to note that the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004 to exceed 100 million in 2015. 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises. the number of displaced people has reached its highest level since world war ii with nearly 60 million people displaced worldwide. more than half of the world's refugees are children. one billion people could be displaced by 2050 due to climate change. this is a matter of urgency. i therefore support the call on member states to support the world humanitarian summit and to adopt voluntary conclusions setting out priority commitments based on a politically impartial approach to humanitarian aid. i give special support to a comprehensive, sustainable and global solution to the mass exodus of refugees from conflict zones. the role and credibility of europe on the global humanitarian scene are at stake in the union's response to the current crisis.
in writing. the world is under great threat from recurrent humanitarian crises. the complexity of conflicts, the scale of natural disasters, the increase in famines, the effects of climate change, the ebola crisis, the migration crisis, and so on, are pushing our humanitarian system to its limits. the migration crisis and the reception of refugees have reminded us of our interdependence, our duty to humanity and the importance of taking action in the field of development to address the root causes of crises. i welcome the adoption of the report on the world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul in 2016. this report lays the foundations for the european union to fine-tune its position and strategy at this important summit. the summit represents a unique opportunity to strengthen humanitarian assistance, to seek innovative solutions and to build instruments that are relevant to the sustainable challenges we face.
in writing. - 250 million is the number of people who are affected by humanitarian crises today. among them are some 100 million people who are now in need because of natural disasters and increasing armed conflicts. but humanitarian crises can only be summed up in a few numbers. these people, living in conditions that are often inhuman, have no choice but to flee their country and seek refuge in another part of the world. and the worst of it is that, in addition to the many armed conflicts, an estimated one billion people could be displaced by climate change by 2050, including from water shortages. we must put people back at the centre of political decisions as soon as possible. and i really hope that the 2016 world humanitarian summit in istanbul will be able to rise to the challenges of today. we must also take into account that, if humanitarian aid is necessary, it must be only one part of a more comprehensive action plan aimed at economic and social development (or redevelopment) in these troubled regions of the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the large scale of humanitarian challenges that are currently being faced require a humanitarian system - which the world humanitarian summit will have to help strengthen - that is more open, protective and of a truly global scale, while at the same time recognising the diversity of the current humanitarian response system and the complementarity of the different actors. parliament called on the union to promote a global consensus on humanitarian action which reaffirms the principles of humanitarian aid and the rights and obligations under international humanitarian law, ensures that protection measures are people-centred and human rights-based, and establishes the responsibility of governments for their role and duties in the protection of persons.
in writing. ‒ the un secretary-general has convened the first ever world humanitarian summit. this will take place in may 2016. this world summit comes at the right time, because we are facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. we in the alde group would like to call for the focus to be on preventing such crises instead of having to react afterwards, when it is already too late.
in writing. ‒ the sharp drop in demand in the iron and steel industry and the closures in the aluminium industry have led to a sharp reduction in specialist capacity and jobs. in addition, these industries are also faced with the challenge of driving forward their energy and environmental modernisation. in order to ensure that the european base metals industry does not disappear from the industrial landscape of tomorrow, it is important that this report proposes measures to adapt the sector to the new climate, economic and social conditions and to set a good example in the effective and efficient use of energy and raw materials.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this own-initiative report which aims at developing a sustainable european base metal industry an industry which has been hit very hard in recent decades and has lost thousands of jobs. in this respect, i would like to stress the urgent need to maintain effective trade defence instruments and to implement them swiftly in order to counter unfair competition practices from third countries based on social and environmental dumping practices. we know that the commission has recently had to take or confirm anti-dumping duties on steel products imported from china at bargain prices. at a time when the granting of market economy status to china is under discussion, it is imperative to keep such instruments available. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that they are imputable to the state. i have therefore co-signed the amendment tabled in the sitting on this subject.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. the base metal industry is vital to a whole range of downstream industries, including automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction and packaging. europe, already highly dependent on raw materials, cannot afford to create a new dependence on base metals. i therefore support the introduction of a carbon tax at the border. this carbon dioxide-based contribution would be designed to put european producers of base metals, who are obliged to buy emission allowances, on an equal footing with their foreign competitors, who are exempt from this obligation. such an approach would have the advantage of providing a universal solution allowing each state to decide sovereignly on the level of ambition of its climate policy, based on a careful impact assessment of the consequences. i have also advocated a firm stance towards the union's trading partners which may be dumping.
in writing. the coal and steel sectors are the backbone of the european construction. the steel industry is fundamental to our economy. the sector is facing major difficulties within the european union. since 2008, 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity have been closed. dependence on imports from third countries is a challenge for our manufacturing industries. in addition, the international market is currently experiencing global overcapacity mainly from china. in view of the economic and ecological challenges facing the steel sector, i welcome this report, which has the merit of formulating a series of proposals to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the european steel sector.
in writing. ‒ respect for the rules of competition is essential to ensure economic recovery, safeguard employment and ensure that the european steel industry remains competitive on a global scale. the carbon border adjustment scheme, which i voted for today, would allow the european union to develop a quality climate policy while preserving its competitiveness, putting it on an equal footing with countries that do not respect social and environmental standards. while the recent cop21 climate conference produced an ambitious agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future, the time needed to implement these measures must also be taken into account. in the meantime, the conditions for equal competition are not met and the risk of carbon leakage from the european union remains and weighs on our industry. it is therefore necessary to place european industries on an equal footing with their external competitors. i also want the money that would be obtained through the border adjustment system to be used, at least in part, for environmental initiatives and the fight against climate change.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. this capacity adjustment has been so large that any recovery in european demand will result in a historic trade deficit in europe, generating dependency and loss of industrial know-how, which would inevitably affect downstream sectors such as automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies. the closures in european aluminium, on the other hand, take place against a background of growth in european aluminium demand in recent years; this has resulted in increased imports. steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties encountered in these professions, which must simultaneously pursue their energy and environmental modernization, which would require an investment policy that few of them can afford today.
in writing. ‒ the content of this report has been denatured. the discussions here have little to do with the development of a sustainable european base metal industry. i therefore decided to abstain, whatever the content of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the follow-up to the european parliament's resolution of 10 june 2015 on the situation in hungary. the european commission has subsequently launched a series of actions in response to the recent developments in hungary. the commission has actively monitored the situation in hungary and other member states. infringement proceedings and informal preliminary proceedings have also been initiated and the commission is prepared to use all the means at its disposal to ensure that member states comply with their obligations under eu law.
in writing. ‒ following parliament's resolution of june 2015, the european commission finally presented its report on hungary at the plenary session on 2 december. it believes that there was no systematic violation of fundamental rights and values of the european union by the orbán government!! i supported the resolution tabled by the s&d, the gue, the greens and the alde group because it very rightly calls, through a report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for the article 7 procedure to be initiated against the orbán government in hungary for its repeated practices which are contrary to the values of the union. unfortunately, the epp vote led to the rejection of the paragraph containing this request. this is a bad signal to the components of the union, because we are talking here about respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression, the protection of minorities and human dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary even though the paragraph mandating the libe commission to draw up a report on the violation of the union's fundamental values by the hungarian authorities was not approved by our parliamentary assembly. i believe that, in view of the actions and statements of the government that have been witnessed for several years, it is justified to activate phase 1 of article 7 of the eu treaty against the government of viktor orbán. the council is here formally called upon to find that there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the union's values.
in writing. i deeply regret that the request to instruct parliament to draw up a report on the activation of the first phase of article 7 against the hungarian authorities was rejected by 9 votes to none. the activation of this phase would have allowed the council to be asked to establish the existence of a risk of a serious breach by the hungarian authorities of european values such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. given the authoritarian drift into which prime minister orban has been leading his country for several years now, this is a minimum. parliament was unable to take up its responsibilities, blocked by the overwhelming majority of epp members. i strongly condemn this lack of political will which only reinforces the impunity of viktor orban and sets a dangerous precedent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in hungary, as i am particularly concerned about the series of legislative measures adopted by that country and the statements made by its prime minister. the european union is a community of inalienable universal values. they form the basis of the european project and cannot be derogated from. the reports from hungary are clear violations of fundamental rights and discrimination against minorities. we cannot accept that. the commission is therefore asked to continue its investigations, while ensuring the transparent and adequate use of union funds allocated to hungary. the council must also be able to react to the worrying developments in the situation by considering the possibility of triggering the procedure provided for in article 7 of the eu treaty. beyond the strict application of union law, the european response to the expulsion of a member state must be firm, because it is a matter of demonstrating that the rights of union citizens cannot be violated under any circumstances.
in writing. ‒ hungary adopted a number of new asylum laws earlier this year which are in breach of eu law as well as international law. the greens called on the european commission to investigate this, but the commission's approach is currently inadequate; it does not adequately address concerns about violations of fundamental rights and values as enshrined in the eu treaties. the resolution adopted today criticises this and pressures the commission to take effective action. the commission could invoke article 7 of the eu treaty, which provides for the punishment of any country which violates the eu's fundamental values. the amendment was unfortunately not adopted, nor was our request for it to be examined by the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i voted for this resolution, however, because it increases the pressure on the commission and we must set an example in this matter if we are to continue to defend our fundamental rights in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted against s&d/alde resolution rc8-1351/2015, as it supported ecr resolution b8-1360/2015 as a more balanced text. the resolution adopted today puts the european parliament in the forefront as the guardian of european law, whereas this is a task assigned to the european commission in the treaties. the reference to the european commission is relevant, because it has recently indicated that it considers that the conditions for intervention are not being met.
in writing. ‒ the repeated violations of human rights by the government of viktor orbán are unacceptable. before his deplorable behaviour towards refugees, we had already denounced the restrictions on freedom of the press, the violations of human rights, the criminalisation of the poorest and the questioning of abortion rights. orbán does not embody any of the european values; the european parliament, and even more so the european party of which it is a member, cannot turn a blind eye to this indefinitely!
‒ hungary is faced daily with the problems of the refugee crisis. but this can never be an excuse for not respecting fundamental human rights and adopting asylum laws which are contrary to european law. this resolution criticises these violations and puts pressure on the european commission to take effective action. we must set an example, as a matter of urgency, that we do not accept this in our european union and that we will always defend our fundamental rights.
after the paris attacks, president tusk declared that illegal migrants should be able to be detained for as long as necessary to carry out identity checks. it is unfortunately a fact that at least one of the perpetrators entered europe with a suspected fake syrian passport. asylum seekers are certainly not terrorists, but some terrorists also travel along the balkan route, as do most refugees. besides, only 30 percent of the refugees are from syria. that's saying a lot. do we really find it so shocking to detain people who cross the border illegally for a short time to check their identity and origin? we are talking about an uncontrolled mass influx of refugees. so, ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself why our external borders are so leaky and why greece and italy are not taking stronger action. and why the commission has looked the other way until recently. gentle healers make stinking wounds.
mr president, commissioner, the imperfections in the drafting of the relevant texts allow the seed industry to appropriate plant characteristics which already exist in nature and which therefore belong to our common heritage, to our public domain. this is the whole point of the current debate, which is based on legal and technical considerations. the seriousness of the examination of the state of the art, which in the european patent office is supposed to prevent private appropriation of elements of our public domain, is seriously threatened, on the one hand, by the completely unsustainable performance targets in terms of patent granting, and, on the other hand, by extremely serious problems of management of the office. it should be noted that these have led to many suicides within the office and to condemnations by the courts of the hague, which the president of the office refuses to implement. this deplorable situation cannot go on forever. this is unacceptable! what measures does the commission intend to take to put an end to these serious deviations which are endangering the conditions under which our academic operators, smes in the sector and farmers can express their capacity for innovation?
colleagues, crammed into a cell in egypt, beaten and tortured, this is how irish citizen ibrahim halawa recently celebrated his 20th birthday. why would you do that? because he invoked his right to freedom of expression and freedom of association. with his hunger strike, he is now asking for the attention and help of the international community. the 2011 elections gave millions of people a political vote for the first time, and there is no doubt that the muslim brotherhood had little ear for dissident votes. but is the current regime doing better? is it less repressive, less autocratic? personal freedoms in egypt today are even more restricted than under mubarak, and human rights violations are widespread. waving the death penalty around is beyond all decency. it is not in keeping with the desire of the majority of egyptians for a free, stable and democratic country. i therefore call on the egyptian authorities to give halawa and the hundreds of other prisoners a free and fair trial and to finally set a role model for many other states in the region.
deputy author. mr president, excuse me, i am replacing mr nart, who is late. there are some very strange places in the world, mr. president. while casual visitors, especially vacationers, often describe the experience as almost paradise, many who have lived there have experienced hell. this is the case in the maldives mentioned above , a country that reinstated sharia law in 2014 and provides that the death penalty is applicable in some cases to children as young as 7 years old a minor sentenced to death will be imprisoned until he reaches the age of majority and then executed , a country that provides that sexual relations outside marriage are punishable by flogging or stoning, even in case of rape this is how a young woman was recently publicly flogged after being gang raped. mr commissioner, do you not think that we in the commission and parliament who are increasing the number of mandatory labels on foodstuffs and other products, who are handing out quality labels in turn, should think about or ask tour operators to think about appropriate labels to distinguish tourist destinations according to their respect for fundamental human rights?
author. malaysia is sliding towards an authoritarian state. today, it is risky to demonstrate peacefully and to wear a yellow t-shirt, for example, because that color became synonymous with treason. so much fear of democracy promises little good. the national front - or barisan nasional - has been in power for 58 years, but still bases its legitimacy on archaic colonial laws: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. the draft laws are largely based on sharia law. and did not malaysia declare that it wishes to portray itself as a moderate muslim state fighting islamic extremism? what about the rights of minority groups? indigenous peoples like the orang asli continue to struggle with the problem of recognition of their property rights. i call on the government to respect parliamentary democracy. the union must exert pressure and do so by taking up the ongoing negotiations on the free trade agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when malaysia is a country with remarkable and rapid growth, and is a model for the south-east asian region in this respect, how can it cling to practices of the past, such as torture or the death penalty? although malaysia has signed a number of international conventions, it is clear that human rights are not yet a priority and that there is even a certain regression. malaysia is one of 58 countries that have not yet abolished the death penalty. it is also one of the 38 states that voted against the resolution for a moratorium on the application of the death penalty, adopted at the united nations general assembly on 18 december 2014, where others simply abstained, demonstrating a desire not to make progress in this area. but if malaysia can be an example in economic terms, why can't it do the same in areas that are just as important to the people, namely the basic freedoms of citizens? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i fully share your concern, mr czarnecki, mr vice-president. indeed, when it comes to taking a stand, for example, on free trade agreements, we should - and certainly do - weigh up the possibility of progress in terms of human rights. we have done this with a whole series of countries, i am thinking in particular of the agreement with colombia, for example, which was special since we remember that one in two trade unionists murdered in the world was in colombia. there has certainly been progress, but we need to do more. so in any case, we must give priority first to respect for human rights and to progress, then to business and not the other way around, or at least put them on an equal footing.
in writing. in september it became known that certain car manufacturers were manipulating vehicle emission data and that the actual emission data were much higher than the figures measured under laboratory conditions and the figures given in sales brochures to the potential customer. it was also very quickly known that european authorities were aware that the tests under controlled conditions did not match the actual pollutant emissions data. it is therefore necessary to clarify the many areas of confusion surrounding the issue of foam software and vehicle emission values. that is why i expressly support the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. the task of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is always as clear. it should identify possible malpractices, negligence, shortcomings and possible violations of european legislation relating to pollution problems in the automotive sector. all this with the mandate to formulate recommendations so that the misfortune of the past does not recur in the future, car manufacturers adhere to the rules and customers can rely on correct information and honest products.
in writing. ‒ we voted for an investigation into allegations that the commission failed to fulfil its obligation under article 14 (3) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 to verify the test cycles used to measure emissions and, if they are no longer adequate or reflect the reality of emissions at global level, to adapt them so that they correctly reflect the emissions generated by the reality of driving on the road, despite reports of serious and persistent exceedances of the emission limit values for vehicles in normal use.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this recommendation to approve a protocol to the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement to take account of croatia's accession to the union.
in writing. it is good that the eu and its partners are anticipating future developments in the european integration process by adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed on 27 june 2012. the proposed protocol incorporates the republic of croatia into the agreement as a contracting party and the union undertakes to provide the authentic croatian language version of the agreement. the council may adopt the act only after obtaining the assent of the european parliament. that is what parliament did today when it voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted logically for the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia. in this vote, the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which endorses the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework partnership agreement. on the foreign policy front, the project covers specific areas such as cooperation on human rights and the rule of law, war remnants and the prevention of natural disasters. it will also make it possible to improve development cooperation (the union is vietnam's main supporter of development aid).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion by the council, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. i believe that it is appropriate to strengthen the existing relations between the parties and to establish cooperation in all areas of common interest. i am thinking in particular of tourism, financial services, the information society, the environment and natural resources, cooperation in the maritime and fisheries sectors and, last but not least, human rights.
in writing. the adoption of this report confirms the objective that the eu and vietnam can benefit economically from the ratification of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement. this agreement contains the seeds of increased employment and the fight against poverty. the agreement will be able to stimulate the further integration of vietnam into the world economy.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed on 27 june 2012. the proposed protocol incorporates the republic of croatia into the agreement as a contracting party and the union undertakes to provide the authentic croatian language version of the agreement. the council may adopt the act only after obtaining the assent of the european parliament. that is what parliament did today when it voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this framework agreement on a broad partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam. i think it is appropriate to strengthen the existing trade relations between vietnam and the european union in the areas of common interest to us.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution in which parliament welcomes the comprehensive framework partnership agreement with vietnam. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting was adopted by the council on 14 december. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. they also called on the eu and vietnam to work towards the creation of an instrument to monitor human rights developments in the context of the subsequent negotiations on the free trade agreement. the resolution calls on the vietnamese authorities to ratify the ilo conventions on freedom of association and protection of trade union rights and on the right to organise and bargain collectively.
in writing. the eu is vietnam's largest export market. and with €400 million in aid for the period 2014-2020, europe is also the largest donor of official development assistance to the country. in order to help vietnam on its way to further integration into the world economy, it is recommended that it implement a number of important reforms. the lifting of a ban on foreign direct investment by vietnam will create a positive investment climate. it also recommends that vietnam make efforts to close the poverty gap in the country. its intention to develop and accelerate scientific research and technological education together with european knowledge institutions will have a positive impact on the necessary diversification of vietnam's economic fabric, product development and export opportunities. the report also makes clear recommendations to the vietnamese authorities to maintain a moratorium on the death penalty, allow greater democratic participation of its citizens, allow opposition parties, guarantee freedom of the press for journalists and free access to information for all citizens. the adoption of stringent legislation on child protection can be an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament welcomes the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam and underlines the major strategic importance of this country as a key partner of the union in south-east asia and within asean. the governments and parliaments of the member states are invited to speed up the ratification process to ensure that the agreement can enter into force. parliament also welcomed the prime minister's announcement of a master plan for the implementation of the recommendations of the un human rights council's universal periodic review and the strategy on judicial reforms, which is expected to be completed by 2020. the union is encouraged to continue its support for strengthening vietnam's capacity to promote respect for good governance and the rule of law, while vietnam is invited to implement reforms to improve the socioeconomic conditions of ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, in which parliament hopes that ratification of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement will bring economic benefits to both the union and vietnam. parliament also stressed the potential effects of a future trade and investment agreement on job creation and poverty reduction, welcomed the economic and financial reforms undertaken by the vietnamese authorities to boost vietnam's integration into the world economy and called on the latter to pursue these reforms. it also called on the vietnamese government and the european union to continue their economic, commercial and new technology cooperation in international fora.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam. i think it is appropriate to strengthen the existing trade relations between vietnam and the european union in the areas of common interest to us.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution on completing europe's economic and monetary union, which, while taking note of the commission's proposals to date to strengthen emu, also makes clear once again that the initiatives do not provide sufficient scope for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level, although this would be necessary to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken in the context of emu and, consequently, citizens' influence on the governance of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is absolutely necessary to make further progress in strengthening the euro area. for example, i think it is essential to implement the provisions of the six-pack and the two-pack. i also regret that the measures which the commission has made public do not leave enough room for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level, which are necessary to give a democratic voice to decisions taken in the context of emu and to ensure that citizens take ownership of the governance of the euro area. i support the request to the commission to consult parliament in the preparation of the white paper on the transition from the first to the second phase of emu reforms and i encourage the commission to open negotiations with a view to concluding an interinstitutional agreement with parliament, the council and the eurogroup on european economic governance, including the european semester and the monitoring of the implementation of the economic adjustment programme.
in writing. economic and monetary union needs to be reformed and strengthened. today we clearly lack real governance, a single pilot to steer the emu. we have a single currency, but our economic and budgetary policies are too often disparate. we must put in place common, effective measures which will effectively guarantee the convergence of our economies. i regret that the european parliament has still not been given the powers of control that are due to it. the european commission's proposal to create national competition authorities through the ordinary legislative procedure is another example. we must ensure that all the proposals made are subject to debate and parliamentary scrutiny at european level. this is the only way to guarantee respect for the principle of democratic legitimacy of emu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the completion of european economic and monetary union, in order to encourage the continuation of ambitious efforts to strengthen the euro area, and in view of the persistent shortcomings currently plaguing the institutional framework of the euro area. the provisions of the six-pack and two-pack must be implemented without delay and emu completed, while ensuring that decisions taken under emu are accompanied by democratic control. the commission is invited to open negotiations with the other institutions with a view to concluding as soon as possible an interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance, with emphasis on the proper implementation of the economic adjustment programme, in full transparency and with regular parliamentary scrutiny, in particular for recommendations concerning the euro area.
in writing. ‒ like the rapporteur, i regret that the measures the commission has made public do not leave enough room for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level, which are necessary to give a democratic voice to decisions taken in the context of emu and thus to ensure citizens' ownership of the governance of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further efforts to address the current shortcomings of the euro area institutional framework. although some progress has been made, further efforts are needed. this is a matter of the utmost importance in order to restore stability and confidence in emu.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the european union's policy on the matter calls on the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to take comprehensive follow-up action on the issues raised in the annual report in order to address these problems. i share the view that the eu and its member states should effectively address international human rights challenges in order to preserve the credibility and consistency of their external human rights policy. the situation of roma, the treatment of refugees and migrants, discrimination against lgbti people, racism, violence against women, conditions of detention and media freedom are important challenges that we must address. the eu also intends to make human rights and democracy-enhancing measures an integral part of eu policies with an external dimension. i have therefore voted in favour of this report by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the committee on foreign affairs adopted this own-initiative report which first recalls that half the world's population still lives under undemocratic and repressive regimes and that freedom has generally declined worldwide. the report rightly stresses that human rights and democracy support policy should be integrated into all the union's policies with an external dimension, such as development, migration, security, the fight against terrorism, enlargement and trade policy. the report highlights among the priorities to be defended by the union and the member states the universal abolition of the death penalty, the promotion of freedom of thought, conscience and religion or belief, the defence of the rights of women and girls, respect for lgbti rights and support for civil society and human rights defenders. i approved this report.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation has approved the 2014 annual report. democracy and human rights deserve a prominent place in the external action of the union and its member states. however, the n-va has questions on the following three issues: firstly, the report is often in danger of losing its own face by shifting too much emphasis in certain paragraphs to economic, cultural and social rights. secondly, the call for the eu to actively participate in the debate on the term 'climate refugee', including a possible legal definition of it in international law, is unrealistic. finally, we believe that stronger recommendations to hold business accountable for human rights are more realistic than an international legally binding instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to reflect at least once a year on the european union's policy on human rights and democracy in the world. i am glad to see that this year the rapporteur has managed to avoid the report becoming a christmas tree, with only a list of countries and specific cases of human rights violations. i am also pleased to note the contribution of my group by adding the following: the need to continue thinking about how to make the european parliament's resolutions on human rights violations more effective; the need to continue to promote the political and economic empowerment of women in external policy by mainstreaming gender equality in all union external policies and programmes and by providing sufficient resources for this purpose; finally, the need to consider as a war crime, but also as a crime against humanity, the deliberate and systematic destruction of archaeological sites,
in writing. it is the european parliament's tradition to report annually on the human rights situation in the world and the way in which the european union is making efforts to improve human rights. as a shadow rapporteur, i have urged that europe should anticipate human rights violations more quickly and take clear political conclusions and action when countries manifestly refuse to protect fundamental human rights. in substance, i have called for the application of the human rights criterion in the selection of a host country for the organization of international sports events and asked that medical care and education be provided in conflict zones and refugee camps. i have also advocated the promotion of international standards for business. i have also called for the destruction of valuable cultural heritage by terrorist groups to be classified as a crime against humanity. the awarding of the 2014 sakharov prize to dr mukwege was highlighted in this report. i have also included in the report that no form of violence or discrimination can ever be justified on the grounds of cultural or religious beliefs. i did not approve the amendment on western sahara tabled in plenary.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. the international context was particularly sensitive and many violations of fundamental rights were reported. these form the basis of the european project. the firm defence of these rights is essential to the maintenance of security and stability in the world. among the positive points, the human rights dialogue with myanmar/burma was initiated for the first time. in contrast, in many countries there has been a rise in intimidation - or worse - of ngos, as well as attacks on journalists and bloggers. recent tragic events have reminded us how important it is to protect our freedom of expression. we must continue to support those who take the risk of speaking out, and above all, keep up the pressure, by all the diplomatic and coercive means possible, on those who prevent them from doing so. in addition, in the european parliament and in the employment committee, i am committed to defending the rights of workers, in order to put an end to all forms of exploitation, abuse and neglect in the course of work.
in writing. ‒ like many colleagues, i am very concerned about the growing threat to human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion or freedom of assembly and association in many parts of the world, especially in authoritarian regimes. we are also very concerned about the shrinking public space for civil society and the increasing number of human rights defenders being targeted around the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and the european union's human rights policy. i believe that the annual report underlines the crucial role of international cooperation in the field of human rights and democracy. we must make sustained efforts in 2016 to promote and protect human rights.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this joint resolution which recalls the importance of the dayton agreement for bosnia and herzegovina but regrets that successive governments have failed to build a fully functional and autonomous state. parliament welcomed the results achieved with regard to the return of refugees and displaced persons but stressed the efforts still to be made to strengthen their socioeconomic integration and the integration of those who were unable to return to their region of origin. the resolution also reaffirms the union's commitment to the european perspective and to the continuation of the accession process for bosnia and herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans.
in writing. ‒ on 21 november 1995, the dayton peace accords ended the bosnian war, the bloodiest conflict on european soil since the second world war. the un high representative for monitoring the implementation of these agreements said that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina remained a matter of concern. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which notes with regret that, twenty years after the end of the war and the establishment of a general framework agreement setting out the main aspects of the process of returning to peace and outlining the future outline of the country, successive governments have failed to build a fully functional state. the country's institutional structure is overly complex and has proved ineffective. i am also very much in favour of a break in the new membership. consequently, i did not support the passages in the resolution reaffirming the union's commitment to the european perspective and to the continuation of the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans.
the dayton peace accords were signed in paris 20 years ago. this peace agreement was of exceptional importance because it immediately brought to an end the bloodiest war europe has seen since world war ii. over the past 20 years, bosnia and herzegovina has evolved from a country torn apart by a brutal war to a state that wants to orient its future towards membership of the european union. but to put this process of european integration on the right track, a number of necessary constitutional reforms must be carried out. the political reforms and democratization of the political system are urgently needed to ensure that every citizen can stand for election without discrimination and to guarantee the socioeconomic integration of all. i supported the resolution calling on bosnia-herzegovina to reform its political, legal and administrative structures, because i am firmly convinced that for this region, enhanced cooperation and a european integration process are the appropriate paths to take to promote further steps towards reconciliation and to achieve a better socioeconomic future for all the people of bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina exactly 20 years after the dayton agreements. twenty years after the end of the war and after the constant measures taken in the last year, it is important to remember not to jeopardize all that has been achieved so far. over the past year, bosnia and herzegovina has taken steady steps, with the strong support of the union, on the european path in a difficult global and regional environment. the new generation of bosnia and herzegovina is moving day by day towards a better future on the road to the european union. let us continue to encourage such people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution. i regret that bosnian society is still divided along ethnic lines and that the echr's judgment in the sejdić-finci case is still not being implemented. the european union must redouble its efforts to facilitate agreement among the constituent peoples on its implementation by guaranteeing equal rights for all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and by strengthening human rights commitments. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i would like to make a call on the european parliament's behalf to the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to use this 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an additional incentive to carry out the necessary reforms with a view to future accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the growing threat of terrorism and the recent terrorist attacks that have shaken europe, i welcome this resolution calling for stricter rules on arms exports. in view of the changed security environment in the eu's neighbouring countries and the increase in arms smuggling and illicit trade, stricter application of the eight criteria for conventional arms exports and better coordination at eu level are necessary. the aim is to increase transparency and public scrutiny of the export control framework to provide a better overview of the end-use and use of weapons.
in writing. ‒ the news shows how vital it is to combat arms trafficking. however, it is clear that this needs to be organised at european level, especially when we know that member states are major arms exporters to third countries, to which exports amounted to almost eur 26 billion in 2013. i therefore supported this report which calls for a european approach to exports, in particular by ensuring that the member states comply with the eight criteria set out in common position 2008/944/cfsp. the report also calls on member states to address the concept of risk in authorisation procedures for arms transfers, to support the creation of an independent european arms control authority or to put in place an effective control system to combat possible export diversion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on member states to apply the european arms export code more strictly and to support the creation of an independent european arms control authority. the authority would be responsible for ensuring that everyone respects the minimum standards, but countries would be free to apply stricter standards if they so wish. for many years we have been selling arms to countries that were once considered stable but are now in conflict and sometimes use these weapons against us. i therefore felt that a good risk assessment and a harmonised and coherent european policy on this matter were necessary.
in writing. following the multiple and dramatic attacks that have taken place in europe and beyond, the security situation of all european citizens requires stricter application of the european code on arms exports. we need transparency and tools that can properly assess the risks of conflict in the world. that is why i voted in favour of the creation of an independent european arms control authority under the auspices of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the aim is to go beyond the simple exchange of information and to allow the high representative to give an opinion to ensure that the member states comply with the minimum rules in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and in particular the provision calling on member states to support the creation of an independent european arms control authority (eaca) under the auspices of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. such an authority should be empowered to give an opinion to member states which intend to grant an authorisation refused by at least one other member state. this opinion should consist of an independent assessment of the applicability of the eight common criteria (including the recipient's compliance with international commitments, respect for human rights, the internal situation in the country of final destination, the preservation of peace, regional security and stability, the national security of member states and allied or friendly states, etc.) and could also be requested by states to assess the applicability of the eight common criteria to any european export authorisation.
in writing. ‒ after years of silence, a progress report on the implementation of the common position on arms exports is finally on the table. not a day too soon, considering that belgium has been singled out for a number of recent attacks as a source of used weapons. the reputation of our country and the safety of everyone benefit from more focused efforts in the fight against illegal weapons. and that is exactly what this report by my green colleague is calling for. for example, more stringent but coordinated action is needed at european level, where member states can implement their own, even more stringent, programmes, but where efforts must also be made to collect, analyse and exchange data with an anti-abuse clause in end-user certificates and on-site investigations of end-users. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new arms embargo, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january. the eu accounts for 25,4% of the arms market, member states exported eur 36,7 billion in 2013, of which eur 26,7 billion was exported outside the union. the report also focuses on private security firms, private gun ownership, the growing importance of dual-use technology, with a clear need to better regulate drones and spy technology. more transparency, cooperation with civil society and greater parliamentary involvement are crucial.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the text. the s&d group reiterates that adherence to the common position is essential for the application of the union's principles and values, particularly in the field of international human rights law and international humanitarian law, and for the exercise of its responsibilities in the field of regional and global security.
in writing. ‒ we must at all times prevent our european weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists. the recent terrorist threat makes a well-controlled european arms export policy more necessary than ever. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ to avoid any appropriation of nature, two texts provide a framework for the protection of biotechnological inventions in europe (a 1998 directive and the 1973 patent convention). these texts exclude from the scope of patents 'processes for the production of plants which are essentially biological'. the european patent office has decided that plants derived from these methods may be protected provided they meet three criteria: novelty, innovation and industrial application. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that products obtained by essentially biological processes such as plants, seeds, traits and native genes should not be patentable. crop breeding is an innovative process that has been practiced by farmers and farming communities since the birth of agriculture. this process is important for genetic diversity; the availability of non-proprietary varieties and breeding methods is essential. i therefore call on the commission to clarify as a matter of urgency the scope and interpretation of directive 98/44/ec in order to establish legal certainty regarding the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained by essentially biological processes.
in writing. ‒ meps voted overwhelmingly by 413 votes to 86 to adopt a resolution to clarify eu rules on patents for plant varieties. this is a very important initiative and follows the worrying decision taken in march 2015 by the european patent office that traits of plant origin could now be patentable. this decision concerned tomatoes and broccoli obtained by conventional breeding techniques. the direct consequence is that small farmers and gardeners will now have to pay to continue to have free access to plant seeds. i have of course voted in favour of this resolution which is based on the strong principles of fairness and the fight against monopolies in the food chain. the trend is worrying with 10 companies sharing 60% of the global seed market. it is therefore essential to do everything possible to preserve the right of farmers to use seed extracted from their own crops. the commission, which has been too silent so far, must act quickly to defend in europe an agricultural model which rejects all patents on plants and plant material.
in writing. ‒ yesterday i opposed the establishment of a european list of 36 priority invasive alien species, because in my opinion this list is incomplete and not based on scientific criteria. in these circumstances, the fight against this scourge will not be effective. for this reason, the european parliament objected, by a large majority, to the draft decision establishing this priority list in the framework of the european regulation aimed at preventing and managing the introduction and spread of this pest in the union through coordinated action plans. in doing so, parliament followed the recommendation of the parliamentary committee on the environment, as formulated on 2 december last.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because farmers are only partially protected and the industry's greed to patent all the seed has not been stopped. neither the european commission nor the european patent office will use this weak text to give a different interpretation to the march 2015 ruling (according to which certain characteristics of tomatoes and broccoli can be patented as long as they are not related to a single variety). the breeder's right itself provides the possibility - even within the framework of the biotechnology directive 98/44 - to breed in the context of research and innovation, even if a patent is attached to it. but after active lobbying by europe bio (agrochemicals), supported by the social democrats and the christian democrats, farmers' protection has been only partially regulated. although in practice they are mainly engaged in seed propagation and breeding (via farm-specific or locally adapted varieties), it is the concentration of power in the seed sector that threatens this right of the farmer. with the pressure to keep new plant breeding techniques out of gmo legislation, it was even more important to curb industry greed so that not all seed is patented. the resolution does not go far enough for me.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned that the recent decision of the epo's enlarged board of appeal in cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli) could lead to an increase in the number of patents granted by the epo for natural traits introduced into new varieties through essentially biological processes such as crossing and selection. the commission should urgently clarify the scope and interpretation of directive 98/44/ec, in particular article 4 thereof, as well as articles 12 (3) (b) and 13 (3) (b) thereof, in order to establish legal certainty regarding the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes and to clarify that the production from patented biological material is allowed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that it will stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties that can guarantee global food security, further tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the plant breeders' sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution which strongly condemns violence and all human rights violations, particularly by the army and police in burundi. parliament urged all parties to establish the conditions for rebuilding confidence and promoting national unity and called for the immediate resumption of an open and transparent national dialogue between the government, opposition parties and civil society representatives. i believe that the international community must spare no effort to put an end to the violence in that country and to restore the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am very concerned about the climate of civil war and the seriousness of the political situation, as well as the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in burundi. i strongly condemn the killings, extrajudicial executions, physical harm to persons, acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, arbitrary arrests and unlawful detentions, including detention of children, and violations of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. the restoration of security, stability and the restoration of democracy and the rule of law are urgently needed in the interests of the burundian people. to this end, it is necessary that a thorough and independent investigation be carried out into the current killings and abuses, that the perpetrators of these acts be brought to justice and that the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties be carried out, in strict compliance with international law and human rights.
in writing. burundi is on the brink of civil war following the events of the last few days and the dangerous, ambiguous, ethnically-tinged rhetoric of the ruling power. this political crisis, the most serious since 2005, is forcing the international community to take a stand. i welcome the proposal of the african union peace and security council to send a force of 5,000 men to burundi. we are facing crimes against humanity, crimes under international law that cannot go unpunished. we can no longer tolerate disproportionate violence, arbitrary arrests, extrajudicial abuses, kidnappings, destroyed media, a muzzled opposition, a dismantled civil society, closed ngos, and so on. the east african rapid reaction force will be responsible for protecting the population and, beyond that, helping to maintain stability in the subregion. i believe that we must move towards a transition which will eventually lead to new elections.
in writing. ‒ i co-signed the resolution which was voted on today and which expresses the european parliament's deep concern at the high level of insecurity and the serious political situation in burundi, as well as the rapid deterioration of the humanitarian situation and the consequences this could have for security and stability in the whole subregion. the text adopted condemns the recent violent attacks and the increase in human rights violations, including murders, extrajudicial executions, attacks on the physical integrity of persons, acts of torture, arbitrary arrests and unlawful detentions, as well as violations of freedom of the press and freedom of expression, and general impunity. the resolution also calls for an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and intimidation against opponents, and for the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties. the resolution also reminds the burundian authorities of their obligation to ensure security in their territory and to guarantee fundamental civil and political rights and freedoms, as provided for in the burundian constitution and the african charter of human rights.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, we have witnessed a growing violence in burundi. in musical terms, a crescendo often heralds a climax. the one we are seeing materialize in your country is far from lyrical. on the contrary, it is a chronicle of a predicted chaos. the slaughter continues and is becoming more and more frightening. dozens of your citizens were killed last weekend in numerous arbitrary executions. burundi has taken another step towards its decline. the confrontations with the opposition, which became increasingly violent and targeted, ended in a bloodbath in the streets of bujumbura. have we learned nothing from rwanda? do we not see the same calls for hatred and the same search for a scapegoat? my colleague arena was outraged again recently!
in writing. – the resolution invites all parties concerned to talk, and we are ready to fully support it. but haven’t we gone beyond the moment where talks can be held as if nothing has happened? blood is in the streets. armed forces are arbitrarily killing their own fellow citizens. it is clear burundi has reached a stage of deep chaos, where fundamental rights are of no importance. as a liberal, i cannot accept this. the eu and its member states must freeze all assistance to the burundian government, while continuing to support the civil population in these dire days of political and humanitarian turmoil. we must also stand ready to support an african-led peace-keeping operation, to bring stability again. otherwise burundi, because of the unreasonable power struggle by its president nkurunziza, will sink away into violent trouble and risk infecting the entire central african region.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park in north kivu is a unesco world heritage site for its habitats and rich biodiversity, which is unmatched in africa. the resolution, which i supported, stresses that the park is subject to several dangers. it has been the scene of violent conflict for over 20 years and has been the subject of poaching and illegal exploitation of mineral and natural resources. moreover, since 2007, oil concessions covering more than 85% of the park have been granted to total and soco, the latter being to date the only company to have prospected the park. parliament therefore called for every effort to be made to avoid irreversible damage to the park. it called on the commission and the member states to work towards preserving the integrity of the park by strengthening their commitment to funding the conservation, economic development and sustainable diversification of the surrounding region, and asked the eeas to engage in diplomatic action to help the congolese government to abandon oil exploration and exploitation in the park.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, stressing the absolute need to avoid irreversible damage to the virunga national park, which is a unesco world heritage site. unfortunately, it has become one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. the park is the scene of intensive poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining, corruption, rape, murder. in the last ten years alone, more than 150 forest rangers have been killed in the line of duty. not to mention the death threats, intimidation, arbitrary arrests against anyone who denounces the impotence of the state or the greed of the oil companies. i also express my deep concern at the irreversible damage that could be caused to virunga national park as a result of oil exploration and exploitation and call for measures to help protect the park as one of the last remaining gorilla reserves, to address the root causes of armed conflict and corruption, and to support sustainable development and peacebuilding strategies in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. i would like to commend the courage and unwavering determination of the park director, emmanuel de mérode, who has been fighting tirelessly to bring the attention of the international community to this remote region, far from the spotlight and the international stage. these magnificent landscapes are the scene of poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining, corruption, rape, murder; that's over 150 rangers, rangers who have been killed in the line of duty in the last decade. there are numerous death threats, intimidation, arbitrary arrests against anyone who denounces the impotence of the state, the greed of the oil companies. i call on the drc authorities to investigate the threats and violence against guards, to ensure justice is done and to prevent irreversible damage to virunga national park. although the british company soco international has decided to withdraw from the virunga national park, the congolese government should not give the license to another operator or decide to exploit the oil itself in the name of economic development, which would only fuel greed, violence and conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to prevent irreversible damage to the virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site in 1979 and inscribed on the list of world heritage in danger by unesco in 1994, and which is home to many endangered species, such as the iconic mountain gorilla and the okapi, in particular from oil exploration and exploitation and other illegal activities. it is unacceptable that oil concessions were granted to the french company total and the british company soco international in 2007, in violation of the paris convention for the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage, the 1992 convention on biological diversity, the ramsar convention and congolese legislation. the european parliament is therefore deeply concerned at the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the park by armed groups who use mining activities to finance their military operations and enrich themselves.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park (vnp) in the democratic republic of congo is africa's first national park, a unesco world heritage site and has been supported by the european commission and several member states for 25 years. the illegal trade in raw materials and the exploitation and exploration of oil in virunga park are not only causing environmental damage and the destruction of the park, but also more violence and violation of human rights. the oil concessions granted by total and soco are also in breach of a number of (international) laws. the eu once again stresses the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to virunga national park. the resolution calls for the european external action service to coordinate a diplomatic response and make it clear that what is happening in this park is unacceptable. by focusing on sustainable forest management, economic development of the region, alternative energy and the fight against illegal logging, the integrity of the park can be maintained. the resolution also calls for active companies (such as soco) to respect international human rights law and for binding agreements to be reached on how multinationals make money. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted without hesitation for the resolution. it is essential to prevent irreversible damage to the virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site in 1979 and inscribed on the list of world heritage in danger by unesco in 1994.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is not only africa's oldest national park, it is also one of the most biodiverse and unique national parks in the world. the future of this beautiful park and its resources are under severe pressure. armed conflict, corruption, and unbridled economic interests are major threats to the park and its endangered species. over the past ten years, more than 150 rangers have been killed in the line of duty. those who denounce the culpable negligence of the government are threatened, intimidated or imprisoned without cause. i call on the congolese authorities to investigate and prosecute the threats and violence against the rangers. i believe that the congolese government must do everything possible to stop and prevent irreparable damage to the virunga national park from oil exploration and exploitation or other illegal activities.
