madam president, in the light of the events in paris, which have seen and witnessed a real islamic terror against european values, i am extremely concerned by the news and the assumption that a large number of illegal immigrants who are on the territory of european countries will be returned to bulgaria. the current situation requires exceptional european solidarity, requires a serious discussion on the issue of illegal immigrants and requires decisions to be taken at pan-european level, in the spirit of common european responsibility and common european solidarity. bulgaria cannot afford to host a huge group of illegal immigrants with unproven origins and who have not received the appropriate refugee status. the current situation in the european union calls for the establishment of a common security policy and calls for a common attitude that guarantees both our security and the preservation of our rights and values.
madam president, colleagues, it is by chance that i stand before this distinguished chamber in the days when our european union is under the shaking influence of the brutal terrorist act in paris. an act that was hailed by the chairman of the largest liberal party in bulgaria, mr. lutvi mestan, with the assessment that any civilizational difference is not only not a reason for terrorism, but is a reason for an even more convinced common aspiration to diversity and multiculturalism. against this background, i present to you the development of an essentially anachronistic problem of intolerance in the republic of bulgaria. i say development because i already had the opportunity to highlight it during the plenary session of 12 november 2014. i have in my hands the act of finding an administrative violation of the central election commission. my offense is that during the last election campaign, along with the official bulgarian language, i used a few sentences in my mother tongue. i objected to the competent bulgarian authorities, and i object to you. the administrative act handed over to me is in flagrant breach of article 10 of the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms, article 9 of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and articles 11 and 22 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. madam president, in closing, i raise this issue not because i don't love my country, but because i want it to reach the high democratic standards of a united europe.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the european commission, at the end of this presidency, i believe we can congratulate you on a successful institutional transition between two commissions of a different democratic scale. but this transition has increased your political responsibility. that is why i would like to return to four priorities. first of all, i would like to welcome the adoption of the conclusions on the management of migration flows and the launch of the khartoum process with the countries of the horn of africa. this is a sign of greater synergy between migration policy and external policies. this is the way forward for a genuine migration diplomacy. i am, however, much more reserved about operation triton and its means of achieving the objective of a policy of solidarity and efficiency. as regards the area of freedom, security and justice, i note that the doors of the schengen area have still remained closed to bulgaria and romania, despite the respect of the technical criteria. the political deadlock must be broken. thirdly, we saw what happened with south stream. energy policy must be conceived today as an instrument of regional integration which will enable the member states, including bulgaria, to continue to support the european project while opening up the prospects of mutual benefits with the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean. i congratulate the italian presidency on the interministerial conference held in rome last november with the euromed countries. finally, i regret that this presidency has not made progress on the only credible legislative dossier on gender equality: the directive on gender balance among company directors. it is a missed opportunity and i hope that in the future it will not be the case.
madam president, i supported the rapporteur's proposal because i think it is sensible and contains new provisions which are definitely needed. the question of banning gmos in the member states is a fundamental one. in bulgaria, there is a strong suspicion against the cultivation of gmos and also against the marketing of goods containing gmos. while this report does not contain provisions regulating the placing on the market of products containing gmos, it fulfils one main objective, which is to give member states the necessary freedom to prohibit or restrict the cultivation and distribution of gmos in their national territories. i believe that the citizens of the member states should have the right, through their governing bodies, to decide whether and how gmos are to be grown on their territory. it's part of national sovereignty. as far as bulgaria is concerned, the bulk of bulgarian society is against the cultivation of gmos and i share that opinion and those concerns. i take this opportunity to call on the european parliament, the commission and the council to continue the discussion on the issue of the placing on the market of gmos or products containing gmos. it is necessary to allow member states to determine for themselves whether and how products containing gmos are to be produced and marketed on their territory.
in writing. today, the european parliament took an important step towards resolving the issue of the cultivation of genetically modified food in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease, and that the eu should be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease. the amended legislation brings additional legal clarity by allowing countries such as bulgaria to ban the cultivation of gmos on specific grounds related to socio-economic reasons, specific environmental objectives, etc. the role of the european food safety authority (efsa) is maintained, which has the right to give an opinion on the safety of a given gmo product on the basis of in-depth scientific research. each member state is now free to decide for itself whether to follow the opinion of the efsa or to define a regime which is in line with its national specificities. it is important to note that the texts also require a high level of guarantee from countries that grow gmos on their territory, so as to ensure the protection of the production of neighbouring countries. once again, the ep has demonstrated that it ensures the highest possible nutritional standards to protect the interests and health of its consumers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, as you said, the meeting announced in geneva by the un special representative for libya is an opportunity that should not be squandered. i congratulate bernardino leon on his action and stress that we must continue to cooperate closely with him and the united nations. i will insist on three points. firstly, a ceasefire and a road map are necessary for the resumption of the democratic transition. taking into account the lessons learned to overcome extreme polarisation requires the efforts of all parties to ensure that the ghadames dialogue continues. secondly, the regional perspective is crucial for sustainable stabilisation. the positive role of actors such as egypt and the arab league should be welcomed, while not neglecting the negative forces and the need for more appropriate responses to regional problems. as for the role of the european union, i have three questions on this subject. 2015 may be an opportunity to take stock of the eu strategy for the sahel. has there not been a restrictive approach in terms of geography and subject matter? have we succeeded in establishing the link between security and development at the operational level? we must find a way to stop the proliferation of arms and other trafficking which has increased and continues to destabilize the whole sahel-sahara region. eubam: what about reconsidering its mandate and reallocating resources to take account of the current situation? finally, i would like to end by stressing the urgency of reaching a point of no return in the dialogue between the parties to the conflict. libya must not become a repeat of the syrian case. in this context, the action, visibility and proactivity of the eu counter-terrorism coordinator is of all the greater importance.
mr. chairman, mrs. mogherini, colleagues, the arab spring has become an islamic winter. the entire mediterranean, the horn of africa, the middle east are in islamic chaos. only egypt has so far managed to overcome this turbulence, this disintegration and stop the islamists' march to power. but libya is an example of how the fabrication of revolutions in africa and asia can turn into a boomerang and come back on our own heads. today, according to all the people in this room, libya is no longer a country. this is a territory divided not into two, not into three, but into no less than 10 parts. the government controls only one-tenth of the territory. tripoli, darna, misrata and the territories south to the chad and sudan borders are controlled by various islamist groups with clear links to the islamic state. a caliphate was also declared in the territory of libya. mrs. mogherini, what the european union needs to do is to develop a clear position and a desire for what it wants to achieve in libya. we need to understand that you can't negotiate with terrorists, we need to understand that we are at war with the islamic state.
madam president, the flow of migrants from third countries via turkey to bulgaria and greece is constantly increasing and poses serious risks to the external land borders of the european union. i've been paying attention for a long time, commissioner, because this situation could be even more serious than the mediterranean. the bulgarian-turkish border is a difficult-to-access region and an ideal environment for smuggling and trafficking in human beings. over 45 rescue operations have been carried out by the bulgarian government, over 1500 police officers guard the border around the clock, there are already casualties on both sides. ninety percent of illegal immigrants entered with the help of traffickers, and over 170 smugglers were detained in 2014 alone. the tragedy of the victims has become a lucrative business, organized even on the internet. there's a high risk of infiltration by terrorists who pay good money for their services. bulgaria is third in the number of requests for protection by syrian nationals after germany and sweden, and at the same time receives one of the lowest budgets from the migration fund. at the same time, there is no political solidarity the country is making tremendous efforts to secure the european union's border, while renouncing its membership in schengen.
in writing. the situation in the mediterranean region, triggered by the unprecedented wave of migration, is extremely serious. it's time to make the distinction again between refugees and illegal migrants, because a large proportion of migrants are not refugees, but economic migrants. the reasons forcing these people to seek the social benefits of the eu are rooted in the failure of their own states, in the destruction of the secular character of much of the north african coast, in the rise and invasion of radical islamism. and it's also the fault of those states and economic interests that organized the so-called arab spring, which destroyed the state and gave way to extremist islamist factions like isis, al qaeda, boko haram, al-shabaab and the mujahideen. the fight against migration must be fought against the causes of migration, where they originate. the role of the neo-ottoman government of turkey, which supports and organises traffickers and organisers of human trafficking channels, should not be forgotten. more european solidarity and financial assistance is also needed for countries at the frontier of migration pressure, including bulgaria, which currently bears a disproportionate financial and organisational burden. european financial assistance is needed to complete the construction of the protective structure along the entire bulgarian-turkish border.
mr president, madam commissioner, madam secretary of state, since the draft directive was proposed, the legislative pressure has been working. companies sought and found women who were competent and qualified to fill these seats, 18.6%. paradoxically, despite the strength of the evidence, we stomp on it. it is more than a year since parliament proposed a basis for negotiations. two presidencies later, the council has still not reached agreement. it is therefore now urgent for the member states to move forward on this matter on the basis of three key arguments. yes, commissioner, women make up 60% of graduates in the european union, but their role in the labour market does not reflect the skills available. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy can never be achieved without breaking the glass ceiling. it is urgent to abandon the logic of the burden on industry and to draw on the t secondly, parliament has already given a pragmatic answer to those who are allergic to quotas. quotas are not an end in themselves, they are a means of ensuring that recruitment procedures are transparent and non-discriminatory. thirdly, it is a question of instilling positive dynamics, starting with the boards of directors and counting on a snowball effect at other hierarchical levels to reduce vertical segmentation of the labour market. today we all wish for greater equality between men and women in the union. it is high time that these wishes were translated into concrete action. at european level, there is little room for manoeuvre. where there are opportunities, it is politically irresponsible, vis-à-vis our fellow citizens, not to seize them.
mr president, commissioner, the european union has a single labour market which should ensure equal rights and equal opportunities for women and men, including senior management positions in companies, but this is not the case everywhere, even though in a number of member states there are national regulations on the matter. the draft directive provides an opportunity to overcome inequalities, it is a policy of equality in action, not promises that do not lead to results. although a small step forward in terms of its scope of impact, the directive will ensure a fairer distribution of women and men in management positions in the european single market. we must be consistent in our words and actions and bring it to the european level. i wish you success, mrs. yurova.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the data that show how much corruption and organised crime cost european economies and european citizens. but there is something far more important. something that can't be measured is trust. the acute perception of corruption and organized crime erodes trust in institutions, and democracy is that political regime which is maximally dependent on the trust of its citizens in themselves. the fight against corruption and organised crime therefore has another dimension - it is a fight for the quality and future of democracy in the european union. so this battle must be fought and won with pan-european institutions, and i am not just talking about the european public prosecutor's office, which is being delayed, but also about the urgent need for a european intelligence service with a very strong and well-developed financial intelligence unit, which will not only increase trust but also create a sense of security, because we are all aware of the sinister link between organised crime and terrorism. as a bulgarian mep, i have to admit that bulgaria is one of the countries with the highest corruption index and low trust in the judicial system. so i want to wish the new reform government success in judicial reform.
in writing organised crime and corruption are global crimes that require close cooperation between law enforcement agencies not only in europe but also internationally to combat them. only in this way will their transnational nature be limited and it will be shown that there is no stable and legal state where their perpetrators can hide. i believe that the european union's attention in the fight against organised crime should be focused on three areas. the first is to combat financial fraud with european funds by setting up a european public prosecutor's office. the european funds are not intended to finance criminal activities but to guarantee the well-being of european citizens. it also requires enhanced police cooperation through more joint teams, cross-border operations and more timely data exchange. this is the only way to effectively combat organised crime and corruption in europe, because no country can tackle these crimes alone. last but not least, stricter controls on financial flows related to criminal activities are needed. i welcome the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the anti-money laundering directive and the financial transactions regulation and urge its swift implementation in the member states.
in writting. – a competitive europe also means europe with secure and reliable energy supplies. bulgaria, similarly to latvia, has a particularly strong interest in energy diversification, which is a key aspect of a functioning energy union. we have suggested the creation of a gas distribution hub on our territory in order to ensure better energy supply for the region. a newly-created high level working group for cross-border diversification projects will sit in bulgaria next month, with which we hope to create a new momentum for better synchronisation of the european energy markets. the completion of such an ambitious plan requires putting it high on the council agenda and i strongly urge the latvian presidency to introduce policy instruments and solidarity mechanisms in support of this action. another important step for achieving energy diversification would be the creation of a common mechanism for negotiating gas contracts with external suppliers for the whole of the eu. such a mechanism would give the europe a stronger, more united bargaining position and would prevent suppliers from using the fragmentation of the eu’s energy policy and markets to enhance monopolistic practices. since political willingness for decisive action in this regard is currently missing, i look forward to seeing the latvian presidency stepping up its work in this regard.
mr president, mrs mogherini, there is no doubt that the european commission and the european parliament face many challenges in relation to the common foreign and security policy. one of the biggest of these, of course, is the full-scale war being waged against the european union by various jihadist islamist groups that are located in the countries of the middle east, in the horn of africa, in the very heart of europe. this foreign policy must be based on exchange and intelligence sharing. we must strengthen the common security policy, because with these groups, with this asymmetrical warfare, we can fight where it is born, not in the streets of paris, but where it starts. it starts from nigeria with boko haram, it starts from somalia with al-shabaab, it starts from islamic state, it starts from hamas in palestine. and let's not forget the role of states that support terrorism, and here an important issue that nobody raised in the room is the role of turkey in supporting the islamic state, in transferring illegal immigrants and refugees to the territory of the european union. that's what we have to do and that's what our common foreign policy has to be.
a question asked by raising a blue card. my colleague carthy, ...... (the president interrupted the speaker for technical reasons) mr. carty, don't you think that the inability of the nigerian authorities to deal with boko haram islamists is the main reason for the rise of islamic terrorism there? don't you think that those companies that are making a profit from the extraction and exploitation of natural resources in nigeria, which is a very rich country, are also responsible? and do you not think that only military force can defeat the terrorists of boko haram and that the world and we, the european union, owe an effort in this direction, as we show solidarity with the victims of terror in europe?
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the subject of ukraine rightly provokes strong reactions and emotions, because it is a leading and key issue for the future of both europe and the european union. i want to raise an issue that no one in this room has raised today, but it's also key to the situation in ukraine. this is the question of the civil and political rights of national minorities within the territory of the state and the attitude of the new authorities towards these minorities and their rights. it is known that there are german-speaking, hungarian-speaking, tatar-speaking and others on the territory of ukraine. among them is the bulgarian national minority, which according to various sources numbers between 250 and 500 thousand people. there are reports of violence and human rights violations against members of these minorities, including forced mobilization and coercion into combat. there are civilian casualties among them. separately, the stated intention of the new authorities to abolish the use of native languages and names of minorities is unacceptable. the right to a native language, to self-determination is a key, basic human right and the new authorities in kiev must unconditionally respect it. my question to you, commissioner, is this question put to the new authorities in kiev and what is the commission doing to protect the fundamental rights and civil liberties of national minorities, including the bulgarian minority?
madam president, madam mogherini, the european union must continue to support cooperation between the democratically elected president, parliament and government of ukraine in order to bring about bold reforms and overcome the current severe crisis, and to guarantee the rights of all ukrainian citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin. the government of ukraine needs a united political will and solid financial support from the international community to make its programme a success. it is part of ukraine's european perspective and a way forward for the long-term development of the country and its citizens. russia's aggressive behaviour is the main cause of the crisis and represents a threat to european security and a flagrant violation of international law. the lifting of sanctions depends solely on the kremlin's behavior. i also call for the release of the ukrainian serviceman nadia savchenko, who is currently in russia, who was kidnapped by the separatists. i think we need a donor conference to rebuild dombas, to modernize the strategic and energy structure of ukraine. the president of the republic of moldova shall be elected by the parliamentary assembly of the republic of moldova on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot.
mr president, madam high representative, egypt is one of the countries which can play a decisive role in stabilizing the mediterranean region and in many other matters, as you have so well said. i will emphasize five elements. first of all, i would stress the implementation of the constitutional provisions on fundamental rights and freedoms. we know that it is not enough to list rights and principles. we need concrete action, not just electoral promises. but how can we make sure that the egyptian authorities actually respect the constitution? secondly, freedom of the press and of expression. stability and security are not guaranteed by a closed press. on the contrary, media freedom will allow the emergence of an inclusive and democratic pluralistic society, as it is one of the instruments of dialogue within society. it is this dialogue that will overcome the polarization of egyptian society. thirdly, i believe that interreligious dialogue could do much to reduce tensions and promote pluralism. i encourage the egyptian government and the european union to support initiatives that promote mutual understanding and religious tolerance. fourthly, the role of women. without the participation of women, the democratic transition can only be partial. their rights must be guaranteed, violence against women must be combated and their participation in political decision-making must be encouraged. here again we need concrete initiatives with results, with the participation of men and with the participation of the union. finally, the fight against trafficking in human beings. this is a major challenge egypt is facing, one we can cooperate more closely on. we have the instruments. now we need to get them up and running. there are many challenges. our support must be sufficient to finally strengthen the institutions and the democratic society of egypt, without which, as we know, no lasting stability in the country is possible.
mr. chairman, madam high representative, colleagues, today we are discussing the situation in egypt, exactly one year after the adoption of the country's new constitution. the constitutional referendum was an important first step towards a comprehensive political process and the european union stood behind it. but unfortunately, since the presidential elections in june, the political situation in the country has remained unstable, and the methods of power are too strong and disproportionate to the factor that caused them. the isolation of a certain section of egyptian society from the current political process in the country is eroding the statehood. the issuing of death sentences, human rights violations, pressure on civil society organisations and the lack of freedom of expression, which has led to the arrest of students and journalists, have a destabilising effect on the democratic process and the socio-economic environment. alongside the negative trends in domestic politics, we must take into account egypt's active regional role. it has successfully mediated an end to the 2014 war between israel and gaza, is working on a dialogue in libya, has given new impetus to talks with ethiopia and sudan on the controversial renaissance project, and in october hosted an international donor conference for the reconstruction of gaza. that is why we need to engage in dialogue and actively cooperate with all representatives of egyptian society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in egypt continues to be particularly worrying. as a result of a wave of riots known as the arab spring, the government in cairo was overthrown after a wave of violence and bloodshed. the arab spring has turned into a long islamic winter, and the threat of one of the largest arab states being taken over and controlled by islamists is still very much alive. the muslim brotherhood is an islamist organization, one of the first of its kind in the modern era. they are closely allied with other islamist militant groups and pose a major threat to peace and security in the region. during the islamist uprisings in egypt, hundreds of thousands of christians, copts and orthodox were killed and expelled, and their cities, properties and homes were destroyed. christian sanctuaries are still under threat. if they take power in egypt, the muslim brotherhood will pose a serious military threat to europe and the state of israel and will become the next link in the islamist attack on europe and our civilization, alongside hamas, the islamic state, boko haram, ash shabab al mujahideen, the council of islamic courts, al qaeda and others. it is no accident that the muslim brotherhood has cooperated with the neo-ottoman and pro-islamist regime of president erdogan in turkey. my question to you, commissioner, is this: what is the commission doing to support the current government in egypt and to counter the islamist threat of the muslim brotherhood?
i would like to congratulate the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, for her key role in making the work of the european institutions more understandable and transparent, and the european administration more effective for all european citizens, including bulgarians. the good administration section is an important addition to the annual report and i would encourage mrs o'reilly to make it a tradition. i'd like to make two recommendations. first, i would like to call on the ombudsman's office to deepen its cooperation with the european ombudsman in the framework of the european network of ombudsmen. i believe that the exchange of experience and good practice between ms o'reilly and national and regional ombudsmen will inevitably contribute to improving the quality of services provided by national administrations in different countries and by the european institutions. secondly, i would encourage it to do even more to protect the rights of people with disabilities and to ensure that the european union administration is aware of its responsibilities in relation to these rights. i consider the role of the european ombudsman to be central to the newly established european union network for monitoring the implementation of article 33 (2) of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i believe that it is our duty as european legislators to also ensure that people with disabilities can enjoy their rights and freedoms as european citizens in a dignified and full way. my final recommendation to you is to pay particular attention to the application of european legislation on the treatment of animals in the member states and, in particular, to examine whether the european commission and the member states are complying with their obligations under the zoo directive, the regulation on the protection of animals during transport and the regulation on the protection of wild fauna and flora. the ombudsman's decision on unnecessary laboratory animal testing and the need for better coordination by the european chemicals agency is a first step in this direction.
in writing. i voted abstention on the report on the european ombudsman's activity report, as i do not think that anything particularly positive can be said about the ombudsman's activities over the past period. the spirit of the ombudsman's report is administrative-command style. of the 100 complaints, only 15 are considered relevant. the admissibility rule is a formal criterion which does not guarantee that the ombudsman has correctly assessed whether there is a bad administrative practice. the formal approach to the examination of appeals leads to a refusal to give a ruling on the petition. the low number of complaints and the number of citizens who have asked for help show that the institution is unknown to the citizens, they do not expect it to solve the problems. a low number of complaints does not mean less bad administrative practices. i do not share the ombudsman's view that frontex should set up a mechanism and rule on individual complaints from migrants. this is a matter for the member states' administrations. frontex cannot usurp this competence, the agency coordinates and assists but does not directly manage the process. the ombudsman's proposal is legally inadmissible. given that the present ombudsman has been in office since september 2013, these observations are findings and recommendations, not a censure.
in writing. in the european parliament (ep) resolution on the situation in ukraine voted today, 15 january 2015, the leading european political groups succeeded in uniting around a common position of solidarity with the country and its citizens. resolution strongly condemns all acts of terrorism and criminal behaviour by separatists and other illegal forces in eastern ukraine. the aggressive expansionist policy of russia, which poses a threat not only to the integrity and independence of ukraine, but also to the european union as a whole, has been the subject of sharp criticism. i am particularly pleased that the resolution supports the current sanctions regime of the union and stands firmly for its continuation should russia continue to destabilise eastern ukraine. the ep's letter makes clear that the eu-ukraine association agreement is not the end-all-be-all of their bilateral relations and recalls the possibility, given the country's stated european perspective, of applying for accession to the union. i welcome the strong signal of support for ukraine's european aspirations reflected in the full text of the resolution. i wish for a smooth and successful implementation of the necessary reforms that the country faces.
in writing. i supported the draft resolution on the situation in egypt because it is extremely important to support the secular government in one of the largest arab countries. the catastrophic aftermath of the so-called arab spring, which turned into an islamist winter, has also led to civil war in egypt, where the secular nature of the state is under attack from the muslim brotherhood. the group is one of the oldest islamist organisations, denies the secular nature of the state and statehood and seeks to establish a sharia state through violence. the islamist takeover of political power in egypt is a huge threat
in writing. i supported the proposed resolution on the case of the two italian marines because i believe that the rule of law, human rights and the rights of suspects must be respected and protected. i believe that this case allows the eu to show its capacity and its capacity to act in relation to the protection of the rights of european citizens in third countries, because it is our citizens who most need to feel the support of the union, to see that it defends their interests both in europe and beyond. i am of the opinion that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should take the necessary action in the defence of the two italian marines in order to achieve a swift and satisfactory resolution of the case, ensuring an independent investigation and a fair trial.
in writing. i support the programme put forward by president juncker's team and the epp motion for a resolution, because i believe that the measures proposed by the commission will help europe recover more quickly from the crisis. the new european commission is charged with the high expectations of european citizens in relation to overcoming the significant economic and social challenges facing europe. i am convinced that good and adequate legislation, combined with effective enforcement, can help create jobs, increase growth and competitiveness. in the age of new technologies and communications, europe's digital internal market is key to its economic development. last but not least, events at the union's eastern border over the past year have demonstrated the need for new measures to ensure the eu's energy security. the creation of a european energy union would help diversify and increase the energy sustainability of a number of european countries, including bulgaria. today in the chamber we have witnessed a sharp contrast between the ambitions of the commission and the political will of the ep. i hope that the epp and cd groups will be able to overcome their differences on important european issues and ensure support for the work of the european commission in its current mandate.
without a doubt, islamic fanaticism and radicalism is the greatest challenge facing western civilization right now. undoubtedly, this religion is seen as politics, and its inspirers have and are pursuing a single political goal - to take over the whole world in the name of their point of view. we have two choices, either to resist or to lose this fight. but this fight is not fought with declarations, mr. chairman and colleagues. this fight can only be fought with a strong state, with borders, with intelligence, with national security. what we can and must do as the european parliament is to use our political instruments. and one political instrument, commissioner, is to impose sanctions on a state that supports terrorism, for example turkey; a state that benefits from european funds; a state that organises human trafficking; a state that funds, organises and treats isis or isis fighters, or whatever you want to call them; a state that threatens neighbours like bulgaria and greece by transferring dozens of illegal migrants. we can and we must do that and those sanctions must be demanded by you.
in writing. at a time when we are talking about cross-border crime, radicalization, international terrorist networks, security cannot be limited to the nation state. european countries must therefore unite to ensure that the community's existing instruments for cooperation in this field are applied optimally and, if necessary, to introduce new ones. the rights and freedoms of citizens are the foundation of the european union. but when the right to life is threatened, all other rights and freedoms become rather illusory. i don't think we have much room for discussion right now. today we see that in the past mistakes were made precisely in the direction of providing more security for our citizens. i am absolutely in favour of a common name register of passenger registration data; a proposal which was rejected by the votes of the left and the liberals in the previous term of office of the european parliament. there should be cooperation with isps, especially when it comes to frankly radical sites recruiting members of terrorist organizations. last but not least, alongside immediate action, let us not forget that the best way to counter extremism is to promote democratic values through civic education. it is the only way to ensure that we do not allow people with a propensity for violence and terrorism to grow up within the european union.
in writing. following the terrorist attacks in france, a number of proposals were discussed to improve cooperation at european and international level in the fight against terrorism. the truth is that this will not be the only attack of this kind in europe and all member states, including bulgaria, must be prepared to prevent many others. bulgaria's proximity to the conflict in syria, as well as the fact that hundreds of europeans are crossing through bulgarian territory to join the islamic state, is reason enough for bulgarian services to work even harder to prevent terrorist attacks. they should actively participate in european networks for cooperation in the fight against terrorism and continue to exercise increased controls on the bulgarian-turkish border. at the same time, other member states should provide more information on people suspected of crossing bulgaria into turkey on their way to syria, so that bulgarian authorities can have a full picture of the flow of passengers across our southern border. i believe that the french citizen detained on suspicion of terrorism is a positive example of european cooperation. the fight against terrorism is a continuous process that requires constant efforts, and it is our duty to win it in the name of european and bulgarian security.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the promises made by jean-claude juncker at the start of his new mandate are now coming to fruition with the presentation of the legislative proposal to create a european fund for strategic investments, which provides for an additional €315 billion in private and public investment across the european union. i would like to point out that the european union is still moving at two speeds, and even at three speeds, because many of the poorer regions of the european union, instead of catching up, are significantly lagging behind others. living standards and economies in new member states such as bulgaria are still far from those of the western member states, and eu cohesion policy is not producing any visible results. i would like to remind you again that it is the uneven distribution of economic growth in the eu that has led to an increase in internal migration and the depopulation of entire regions. more intensive and more focused action is needed, particularly in the poorest regions, and i hope that the new proposals from the european commission and the additional measures envisaged to support the european economy will be proportionately allocated to the needs of the regions and the people. if these 315 billion euros are invested mainly in the old member states, i would not be surprised if in a year or two there is even more mass migration in this direction.
in writing. – the success of the investment initiative hinges on the ability to identify and select those risky projects that would have not been realised in the absence of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and where the ‘leverage effect’ can achieve its full potential in terms of attracting private financing. one of the main challenges for the governance structures will be to ensure additionality and avoid the crowding-out of private investment. according to the provisions of the proposed regulation, an independent investment committee will be charged with the task of examining potential operations and approving support for them irrespective of the geographic location of the projects concerned. although the text does not provide for any geographical pre-allocations of investment, it would be important to consider devising a mechanism to guarantee the balanced distribution of the projects, taking account of the differing economic conditions and investment environment across the member states. it is important to emphasise that projects in poorer and peripheral regions could, ceteris paribus, provide higher social returns and european added value, thus helping to safeguard the proper functioning of the single market. i call on the commission to assess carefully the governance structure of the fund so as to guarantee the independence of the investment committee.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, 2015 is a crucial year for reaching a new international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. the expiring kyoto protocol had a major flaw: the largest emitters (the us, china, india, russia) were not officially involved in global efforts to save the climate. so in the run-up to the 2015 paris climate conference, it's worth taking all reasonable steps to get formal commitments from both these countries and all the economically powerful developing countries. encouraging signals from china and the united states bring hope for the success of the conference. the eu is certainly leading not only in emission reduction performance but also in transparent and ambitious plans for the next decades to 2050. but it must not be forgotten that european industry and citizens are paying the price, losing competitiveness, jobs and incomes. this requires that the paris 2015 roadmap be at least equally focused on both succeeding in obtaining realistic and comparable commitments from the world's major polluters and protecting eu interests from undue burdens on industry, smes and citizens. it's not gonna work if the eu keeps footing the bill.
because of the sheer number of conflicts around the world, there are over 50 million people who have been forcibly displaced, and 7 million who have been driven from their homes in the last year. in the last two years, 18,000 refugees have sought asylum in my country, bulgaria, and there is a separate dublin regulation requesting the return of another 8,000. this puts bulgaria at a disadvantage compared to other european countries, because refugees stay in those countries where they first crossed the borders of the european union. in addition to the revision of european legislation on migration, i also emphatically raise the most important issues of paramount importance for our country - our admission to schengen and the issue of refugees. both are inextricably linked to our external border and should be reflected in the european commission's work programme for this year. the implementation of the schengen agreement in bulgaria should be a priority not only for bulgaria, but for the whole of europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, i want to thank the committee on legal affairs and especially its chairman, mr svoboda, for their question, because the answer will allow me to maybe explain more and put a decision in context. you asked about the setting up of a group of experts on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. so maybe just one short remark putting the decision into context. markets and technologies are constantly changing, and we need to keep up with them. we need to keep on finding new solutions to breaches of ipr, and we need to be targeted. we need to develop new enforcement tools. it is for this reason – and also because member states cannot go alone with the issue – that in july last year an expert group was set up. it was a core part of our ten-point plan to improve ipr enforcement, and the member states welcomed it. let me turn to the specifics of your question. first you asked about the tasks of the group and how they add value to the work of the observatory. second, you asked about the financial implications and whether there will be duplication. the expert group, it has to be stressed, has a strict mission. it is to advise and assist the commission on policy initiatives. its members are the national authorities responsible for national ip policies, and it is to exchange experience and good practice. it will not gather data or conduct studies itself. instead it will rely on work done at national, eu and international level, including, of course, the work done by the observatory. this is completely different, as we see it, from the role of the observatory. the observatory is there to facilitate and support the practical enforcement work. that includes improving understanding and raising awareness of the impact of ipr infringements, providing training, promoting enforcement tools and technology, and helping national enforcement authorities to work together. the observatory supports national authorities, the private sector and eu institutions. part of this is data collection; the data collected and reported by the observatory supports the work of the commission and the member states. so the expert group focuses – just to repeat – on policy, best practices and monitoring, and the observatory focuses on the day-to-day enforcement and the collection of data. they do not duplicate. on the contrary, they are complementary. so the group will not result in unnecessary expenditure. third, you wanted confirmation that you could send experts to an expert group meeting, and the answer is yes, absolutely you can – you will be very welcome. we apply the framework document on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, but equally important, i think, is that you should be part of this body and participate in this work. we have to work together on ipr enforcement. it would be really helpful if you would follow the group actively. i will also listen to your questions and remarks, because i think that it will help our future work. i hope that reassures you and answers your questions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is important to stress the importance of protecting intellectual property and the strongly negative impact of infringements of this property on the economy as a whole, on the workforce, on the incentive for innovation and creativity. let us not even begin to talk about the grey economy, which benefits from the lack of and non-compliance with the necessary legislation in this area. of course, we need good enforcement of intellectual property rights, but not at the expense of the taxpayer, not by wasting public funds, which in low-income countries would mean the livelihood of hundreds of families. is the creation of this group really necessary, given that the observatory is already working on this and one of its working groups is entirely concerned with the enforcement and protection of intellectual property rights? the observatory even has its own observers in the european parliament, including myself, and the expert group doesn't even foresee that. do you not think it is at least more practical for the directly elected to have oversight of the work of this expert group so that we can report and account to our colleagues in the european parliament and to our constituents about the work done in this area? i had the honour and pleasure of attending the observatory's plenary session last october and getting the necessary information about their work, for which i am of course grateful and believe in their efforts for future useful work. the legal affairs committee also frequently invites them to meetings, where they provide information on the activities and developments in the field. i ask again, is there a need for further waste of funds and how can this need be explained by the creation of a new expert group of this kind?
we all, and businesses in europe, are increasingly using the internet to conduct online commerce both within the european union and with the rest of the world. the remarkable success of the internet is not just a coincidence. the reason is that the global network continues to evolve every day as a result of the excellent functioning of its governance model. it allows interaction between all stakeholders, the academic community and citizens, ngos, governments, large companies and small companies. the internet governance forum has become a successful democratic platform for debate and exchange of good practices. i therefore fully support its continuation and further development. i call on the european union and the member states to support this proven approach to internet governance, given that in 2015 the un will review its common information technology policy. by taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the internet, europe can become a global leader in technology, supporting the open internet model. finding a compromise on key issues such as roaming, copyright and net neutrality will allow us to seize the moment and achieve the completion of the digital single market in the european union.
mr. president, in two days' time, the conflict in ukraine will be discussed again in this plenary chamber. the role of the european union, the commission and the parliament must be to lead the way in the efforts to make the negotiations with russia a success, and our messages must be heard. we want dialogue, not ultimatums, partnership, not sanctions. we want to see the world as it is. weapons do not solve conflicts, they bring violence, death and destruction. that's the cruel lesson we learned 70 years ago. europe is facing another risk: a new humanitarian crisis. after thousands of people seeking refuge in the european union from conflicts in africa and the middle east, new waves of refugees from ukraine will head to the eastern borders, which will be difficult for europe, and especially the countries on the external borders, to cope with. we must support mrs. mogherini's efforts to find a peaceful solution and a compromise. she belongs with the negotiators. i demand the guarantee of the rights of minorities in ukraine and the end of compulsory mobilization for participation in armed formations and military actions.
the commission's proposal to significantly increase the initial pre-financing for the youth employment initiative should certainly be welcomed and supported as particularly timely and necessary. and in that connection i would like to congratulate commissioner thyssen, who i think deserves full credit for her personal efforts in this regard. at the same time, however, we should be aware that this step is far from the answer. while at the beginning of 2014 there were 5.6 million young people under 25 who were unemployed, the current communication now refers to seven million young europeans who are out of work, without training or education. there is one more thing: the long-awaited mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy has never taken place. the commission has not presented its analysis and my question to commissioner thyssen is this: do you not think that it is absolutely essential to have such a review, so that the measures taken are really based on a serious analysis and not just a pr action?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, youth unemployment is undoubtedly one of the biggest problems facing the member states of the european union. this is because youth unemployment is one of the main causes of internal migration within the european union, of large demographic disparities and of depopulation of entire regions. this migration is causing huge demographic problems in europe, already badly hit by the demographic catastrophe. for example, such problems exist in my country, bulgaria. it is therefore sensible that the funds you have provided should be directed to the areas most affected by the demographic disaster and should be focused on the education of young people so that they can find work and fulfilment where they were born, rather than being forced to migrate.
mr president, commissioner, as the youngest member of this parliament, i see the youth guarantee as much more than a mere measure or a mere programme. i see in it a real opportunity to change the lives of hundreds of thousands of young europeans abroad. at current pre-funding levels, we can reach no more than 22,000 young people. with the commission's proposal, we can go up to over 650 thousand. these are 650,000 young europeans who will stay here and create added value in europe. i've heard colleagues say, "not every young person can become a lawyer. not every young man can become a doctor. not every young person can become a star. maybe, fellas, maybe it will work. because the stars of this union are not on the flag, but among the young people outside. that's why the youth guarantee has to work in full sync with the european social fund so that we can double the results. member states should therefore make the fight against youth unemployment a real priority. moreover, it is also an opportunity for us to make the fight against youth unemployment a priority of action rather than a priority of words. it's up to us to make that a reality. i thank you and admire the commission's intention to increase the pre-financing.
in writing. mr president, the fight against youth unemployment is an important priority in my work. in bulgaria, the share of young people aged 18-24 who are neither working nor in education is 22% and significantly above the eu average of 13%. in my country, we have the highest proportion of these young people that the employment services cannot reach. the share of inactive young people is over 14% and is twice the eu average. youth unemployment and early school leavers are also above the eu average. among the main challenges facing the youth guarantee in bulgaria are the need to strengthen training and apprenticeship initiatives and to expand active employment policies to find suitable staff. that's why i'm pushing for an increase in youth employment funding, expanding the coverage of the youth guarantee to all young people up to the age of 30, not to 25, as it is now.
in writing. – the commission decision to frontload the resources allocated to the youth employment initiative in the first two years of the 2014-2020 period shows a genuine commitment to tackling the severe issues with youth employment that we are still facing. it also acknowledges the fact that timing is crucial and that bold decisions are needed in critical situations, which i welcome. making eur 1 billion, or one third of the whole yei allocation, available in 2015 alone will ensure that projects in member states roll out more quickly and thoroughly. and while the focus of the measures proposed by the commission is on the financial aspect of youth policy, i am eager to emphasise the importance of how these funds are to be spent and what the overall strategy of reforms is. subsidies and grants alone cannot fight youth unemployment. the eu needs to optimise the structural circumstances in the labour market by supporting thriving, job-creating businesses on the one hand, and encouraging skills-building on the other. if we truly aim to invest eu funds in projects with added value and long-term effects, we need to reward entrepreneurial spirit and strengthen the real drivers of the economy; to tackle the causes and not the effects of failure.
in writing. – i welcome the commissionʼs proposal to increase the pre-financing rate of projects financed through the youth employment initiative (yei) from around 1 % to 30 %. the fight against youth unemployment is one of the top priorities of the socialist family. it was on our initiative that the european union adopted the yei and the youth guarantee recommendation. we have been calling for a speedy implementation of the youth guarantee. youth guarantees have shown great success in tackling youth unemployment in countries where they have been implemented. this is why i call for the youth guarantee to be extended to everyone under the age of 30 and for a substantial increase in its budget. increasing the pre-financing rate to 30 % will facilitate easier access to the funding and will accelerate action on the ground. over 7.5 million young people aged between 14 and 24 in the eu are neither in employment, education or training. that is why our political family will ensure that the increase in pre-financing is confirmed by parliament and the council and made available without delay.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the provision of €1 billion this year from the youth employment initiative, with a total budget of €3.2 billion, clearly shows that one of our most urgent tasks is to restore the hope and confidence of young people in the successful implementation of the european labour market. unemployment among young people aged under 25 remains high, at more than 5 million young people or 21,4% in the eu-28 as of december 2014. young people who are not in work, education or training (neets) are particularly vulnerable. bulgaria is the first in europe for this indicator with 21.6% against an eu average of 13%. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal in 2015 to increase the pre-financing for member states under the youth employment initiative by many times (30 times). as a result, this year bulgaria will receive €16,556,624 of a total of €55.2 million under the youth initiative for projects to reduce youth unemployment in addition to funding from the european social fund. the effective implementation of the youth employment initiative depends on member states' efforts to increase the engagement and interest of young people in the opportunities offered by the eu for employment, training, traineeships and entrepreneurship.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, despite my attachment to the democratic republic of congo, i cannot but welcome the fact that the situation of this partner country is on the agenda. the decision of 25 january on the electoral law will not be enough to restore a climate of confidence for the rest of the electoral cycle. the current situation comprises four key elements. firstly, the publication of a complete electoral calendar, consensual and, above all, accompanied by a detailed budget, as requested by the election monitoring mission i led last june. eight months later, we are in the same situation. the government and ceni cannot continue to shoot each other. secondly, the central element of any continuation of the electoral cycle in the drc is dialogue between political parties. we must encourage it, whether in the framework of the working groups within the ceni or through new initiatives that create forums for discussion between the parties, to restore confidence, to ensure the transition of power. the third key message is the implementation of the addis ababa framework agreement. the launch of military operations against the fdlr will only be decisive if real progress is made in the implementation of the framework agreement. commitments must be kept by all actors. this debate is also an opportunity to recall the sakharov prize for dr mukwege. the congolese authorities must give full support to the activities of the panzi hospital and refrain from interfering with its proper functioning. the protection of civilians must remain a priority, not only for monusco, but above all for the drc armed forces.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that the agency has been faced with such a situation. it is therefore important to ask the right questions and, above all, to ensure that all those involved take their responsibilities. first, the agency should clearly identify the reasons why the promised funds were not finally mobilised. beyond the budgetary constraints that many donors face, what are the real roots of this situation? secondly, it becomes necessary to diversify the sources of contributions. the palestinian conflict goes beyond regional issues and requires a global response. we need - and we agree with you - to involve more other donors, including from emerging countries. thirdly, humanitarian aid must not become a hostage to the political situation. unrwa is not only providing material assistance, but also a guarantee of human development for years to come, by ensuring access to educational services and microfinance. you should always keep that in mind. this brings me to my fourth point. the palestinian authority must provide a plan for the development of the palestinian territories beyond the humanitarian emergency. we need a medium- and long-term action plan, which does not simply consist of rebuilding what has been destroyed in anticipation of the next crisis. as for the european union, through your votes, commissioner and high representative, the european union has begun to strengthen its contribution to conflict resolution and crisis prevention, adopting a regional and global perspective. you have our support to continue in this direction. finally, the international community needs to think more broadly about the solutions we are providing to refugees. leaving the unresolved conflicts between israel and palestine, in syria, perhaps soon in libya leads to an unprecedented increase in the number of refugees. unrwa must remain unique, and we must not accept "temporary" conditions again for the next 65 years. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i have been very clear: humanitarian aid must not be held hostage to the political situation. it is clear that today we have partners, on both sides, who must commit themselves to finding a solution. the decision that will move the situation forward will not be one-sided. that's my position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam mogherini, in the midst of the political talks that are taking place and that are to take place tomorrow in minsk (which are of course extremely important), i would like to draw your attention to a fact that has been left out of the news, namely the existence and the problems of the huge minority groups that are in eastern ukraine, right at the front of the fighting, between the guns, between the tanks, between the two hostile groups. the population of eastern ukraine is not homogeneous. there are many national minorities there, among them perhaps half a million bulgarians and bulgarians-gaussians. these people are in a terrible humanitarian crisis right now. therefore, i call on you to activate the mechanisms for humanitarian aid and humanitarian mission; to draw attention to the issues of forced mobilization that we hear are happening in these countries; to draw attention to the authorities in kiev that they must strictly observe all the rights and legitimate interests of national minorities of self-determination, of their own language, of their own association; to draw attention to the president and the leadership of ukraine that this is an element of future peaceful solutions and negotiations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to say that i am impressed by your tenacity for another day in the chamber, for which i congratulate you. now, on to the subject. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is the only international treaty of its kind aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and promoting the peaceful use of nuclear technology. but today, given the circumstances and the threat from isis and islamic extremism in general, we have to be very careful when we talk about disarming nuclear arsenals. that is why i call on the participants in the upcoming treaty review conference to focus their efforts on the danger of nuclear arsenals falling into unwanted hands, not just on how to disarm them. admittedly, yes, there is a view that these weapons of mass destruction are a threat to humanity, but they also represent a fundamental element of the national security of many countries and are a guarantor of stability, security and peace in many regions. today's conditions require that we focus on increasing the security of nuclear weapons systems. that is why i believe that nuclear disarmament should be achieved gradually and only through international agreements and cooperation in this area, while continuing to promote the peaceful use of nuclear technology, because my first conviction is that there is no cleaner, safer and cheaper energy than nuclear. there are many examples of this in europe, for example the kozloduy power plant.
madam president, three points. first, the holding of the sessions of the joint parliamentary assembly in the member states of the union which hold the rotating presidency of the council. this not only has enormous added value but is also a symbolic element of our partnership with the acp countries. the credibility of our commitment to this partnership will be clearly called into question if we continue in the disappointing direction that has been taken for two years already. secondly, as regards the institutional aspect, your participation in the last meeting of the pap, commissioner, was particularly appreciated by its members. we can only hope that this commitment will continue. thirdly, on the basis of the very good report by mr goerens, i fully support the idea of strengthening the dialogue on human rights and, likewise, the appointment of the two permanent co-rapporteurs on policy coherence for development, which are excellent proposals. finally, i would like to stress the exceptional nature of this assembly. supporting it is to highlight the strategic importance of our acp-eu partnership.
madam president, i would like to remind you that there is no cultural, traditional or religious excuse for female genital mutilation. we must do everything we can to stop these crimes. i would therefore like to stress five elements. firstly, as regards the commission communication adopted in november 2013, we all agree that the utmost urgency is the adoption of a specific timetable and deadline for the implementation of the actions listed. secondly, i stress the key role of the european institute for gender equality in helping member states to develop specific indicators on fgm. thirdly, as regards the external aspect of the policy to eradicate female genital mutilation, i would draw your attention to the importance of consistency and perfect coordination between you, madam commissioner, the high representative, the special representative for human rights and the commissioners for development, humanitarian aid and migration. three key words: coordination, exchange of information and complementarity of actions to give substance to the union's overall approach. fourthly, i think it is important to start thinking about the inclusion of genital mutilation in migration policy. on the one hand, because of the asylum applications and, on the other hand, because attention must also be paid to the young girls belonging to immigrant communities in europe and the risk they run of being sent back to their home countries to undergo such mutilations. finally, we must not fall into the trap of medical circumcision, which would be more acceptable: medical or otherwise, it is a violation of human rights. awareness campaigns must take this trend into account and, above all, be careful not to substitute one evil for another.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, child abductions are another heart-breaking topic of today’s session here and i know that this matter is of special interest to many of you concerned by specific cases that desperate parents bring to your attention. like you, i want justice to be served and, within the limits of my competences, children in the eu to be better protected. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important international legal instrument. its aim is to provide a system of cooperation between the central authorities and a rapid procedure for the return of an abducted child to the country of the child’s habitual residence. altogether, 93 countries, as ms hautala has said here, are already parties to this convention. all eu member states have joined the child abduction convention. the eu is not a party to the convention but has incorporated its principles in binding european legislation, which is the brussels ii regulation. it is in the eu’s interest to maintain a common legal framework with third states in order to solve international child abduction cases and guarantee legal certainty and speedy proceedings for eu citizens involved in these kinds of sensitive disputes. in december 2011, taking the view that the question of the international abduction of children fell within the exclusive external competence of the eu, the commission adopted proposals for accession acceptance for eight third-country states. contrary to the commission’s and parliament’s views, within the council most of the representatives of the member states considered the council to be under no legal obligation to adopt those proposals. as a result, the council did not adopt the proposals. last october the european court of justice confirmed that the exclusive competence of the european union encompasses the acceptance of the accession of a third state to the 1980 hague convention. it is now time to finalise this process without further delay. the council needs to take a decision on each of the proposals in unanimity. the negotiations are quite challenging but we are dealing with serious matters of child protection. we therefore have a duty to find a solution to this. i will use my contacts with member states to advance this process as much as possible. i would like to thank the rapporteur ms hautala and the committee on legal affairs (juri) for their constant support for the commission’s initiative. we share the same determination to protect children and resolve abduction cases quickly. i am convinced that a robust eu presence in the external field is of paramount important in this regard.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, it is imperative to extend international cooperation in the field of child protection. every society must take greater care and a set of measures to protect the rights of persons who, by reason of circumstances, physiology or the law, have a limited capacity (minors or minors). we therefore welcome the accession of a number of european union member states to the 1980 hague convention. this is an important step and it will certainly be appreciated in the field of international law. i would like to note that crimes against children unfortunately remain at the same high levels. some of the abductions are actually the initial stage of the compound crime of trafficking. it is no secret that thousands of children in europe are victims of trafficking and criminal exploitation. there are criminal gangs, mostly minority gangs, that deal with trafficking children, selling them, exploiting them as beggars, prostitutes, pickpockets, and so on. in this sense, i think that we must now, as an institution, respond to these challenges and put an end to this dirty business.
madam president, the need for measures to improve effective cooperation between national judicial authorities is one of the problems we need to work on in order to make the application of the hague convention more effective and to minimise problems in its application. the european commission's report of april 2014 reveals some important shortcomings of the legal framework, namely: the lack of a single and comprehensive rule on jurisdiction; the enforcement of judgments given in other member states often proves difficult due to differences between procedural standards, such as those regarding the hearing of the child; cooperation between central authorities of the states also needs to be improved. all these problems were manifested in a single case which was presented to the committee on petitions only recently. ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the forcible removal of a child from one parent without the consent of the other. we condemn these practices. but what do we do when it comes to forcibly removing a child and giving that child up for adoption without the consent of the parents? an act not committed by traffickers but by a court in a member state of the european union. my dear colleagues, i assure you, it is possible and it is becoming common practice in the british courts. two weeks ago, a similar case was brought before the house committee on petitions, megan's case. in addition to the parental rights being withdrawn from both parents, the grandmother of the child was also denied parental rights in clear violation of her procedural rules. where is the child interest that we're all talking about in this particular case, and how long are we going to be silent witnesses to this vicious practice in the british courts?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today covers two important topics: terrorism and greece, i would say syriza. what do they have in common? there is, and that's poverty. poverty brought terrorism to europe, poverty brought syriza to power. we have to be clear with ourselves that europe and the european institutions have failed both in the security system and in the measures that have been implemented in greece in recent years, which have practically destroyed the greek economy. today, two countries in europe are europe's external border with countries that export terrorism. this is bulgaria and greece. i can assure you that these countries (bulgaria and greece) are no less safe, or rather even safer than france and belgium. i call for an extraordinary approach and new measures to the financing and protection of the external borders of the republic of bulgaria, as well as a special approach to greece and the poverty in those countries.
mr president, there is an important council tomorrow and it is natural to have a heated and extensive debate. on the security issue and counter-terrorism, i would like to underline the fact that we still have a divided european security area: until bulgaria and romania are part of schengen, this undermines our common security. secondly, on greece, we do not need arm twisting or a clash between two views. europe is based on mutual respect and constructive dialogue, and that dialogue will take into consideration not only the results of the elections but also the undertakings that have been given and the unity and cohesion of the eurozone. it is clear that europe needs a new deal for greece, a new perspective, and hope for the people. finally, on the talks in minsk, we need to be constructive because this bloodshed has to be stopped. we can no longer afford it: there are 1.5 million refugees, internal and external, among them people who are suffering. there are between 300 000 and 500 000 bulgarians living in ukraine, and i call on the european union and the bulgarian government to extend humanitarian support to them.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention and call on all parties to that international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to that international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention and call on all parties to that international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to this international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to this international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to this international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to this international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs hautala on the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because i believe that the statistics on the increasing number of abductions speak for themselves of the urgent need for cooperation. according to the data currently available, in 2008 the number of applications for return of children submitted within the eu alone on the basis of the 1980 hague convention was 990. this is 35% more than in 2003. unfortunately, the crime rate against children is also high. i cannot help but point out that kidnapping is the first step to human trafficking and exploitation for criminal purposes. i welcome the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention and call on all states parties to this international instrument to take measures to ensure its practical application.
mr. president, i would like to president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the resolution on the crossborder exchange of information on road accidents because i believe that the policy of reducing road casualties must be supported and must be followed consistently. the traffic offence fine is also preventive in nature. so it makes sense to make such an exchange. yes, certainly privacy is an important civil right that must also be strictly protected, but no less important is the preservation of the lives of our fellow countrymen and citizens. that's why i think that any traffic violations committed by foreigners must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and that's why this data can be transferred. i am aware that transposing this information into national legislation will require time and a huge amount of work. i therefore consider that granting the kingdom of denmark, ireland and the united kingdom a two-year transitional period is a sufficient, normal and realistic period. in conclusion, i would like to stress that i support the policy of preventing road accidents.
in writing. mr president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by ms sander is important not only because it reflects a judgment of the court of justice of the european union on the legal basis of directive 2011/82/ec on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences and the opinion of the european data protection supervisor on the exchange of information between member states, but also because it generally improves the text of the directive. i believe that the proposed amendments thus contribute to the effective implementation of the directive by ensuring a better level of protection of the personal data of european citizens.
in writing. with today's vote, the european parliament has demonstrated a consistent policy to tackle road safety - an issue that affects the health and lives of every citizen. the goal is clear - to reduce road fatalities. the court of justice of the eu's decision of may 2014 to repeal (in relation to the legal basis) the previous directive on the cross-border exchange of information on road traffic offences led to the need to re-adopt the text with some amendments. i hope the new directive will lead to more safety on the roads. moreover, it will apply in all member states of the union, subject to the requirements of personal data protection. it is essential to ensure that there is a european tool to deal with cross-border traffic offences. this is about tackling the most common examples of speeding, not wearing a seatbelt, running a red light, driving drunk, etc. these breaches will be investigated and sanctioned, regardless of the member state in which they are committed. i look forward with great interest and hope to the results of the texts adopted today and to the commission's future assessment of the application of the directive.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i support the adoption of the new directive as soon as possible to avoid the risk of a legislative vacuum due to the annulment by the court of justice of the european union of directive 2011/82 on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. despite its short duration, the repealed directive has had a strong deterrent effect on foreign drivers of road vehicles, regardless of the country of registration within the european union. thanks to the new rules, any infringement committed abroad can be notified through the mechanism for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and lead to the effective application of the sanctions imposed. the european parliament has always maintained that its priority is to improve road safety and reduce the number of road fatalities. the figures to date continue to shock us with their scale - more than 26 000 people die on european roads every year, and many more are injured. in road warfare, children are particularly vulnerable, unfortunately even on the pavement. i therefore strongly support the european commission's efforts to ensure a high level of protection for all road users in the european union through the proposed legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support this resolution because i did not see it as a clear condemnation and a demand for punishment of the guilty. undoubtedly the use of torture, of kidnapping, of violating civil rights is everything that this room denies, and everything that this room has to fight against. not to mention, when there are confessions extracted by torture, imagine what kind of fight against terrorism is being talked about. then you get a distortion of information, then you get a redundant effort, and it's all going in the wrong direction. yes, civil rights should be respected. yes, no one can afford to justify breaking the law by breaking the law. and that would compromise the whole idea of justice, would compromise the whole idea of building a better and safer world. therefore, the guilty persons must be investigated and effectively prosecuted in order to restore faith in justice and faith in the rightness of the law and its supremacy.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favor of this resolution because islamic terrorism represents perhaps the most serious threat to western civilization in the last century. what is happening on the southern borders of europe, the uncontrolled invasion of illegal migrants, the inability to secure the borders of the states are actually the way in which terrorism enters our territory. that is why an effective system of cooperation between the intelligence services of the european countries must be established, and why the military operation to destroy islamic terrorism where it is currently gaining strength must be expanded and developed - in iraq, in syria, in nigeria, along the entire northern coast of the african continent. because, again, the greatest threat to our civilization, our values, our way of life right now is armed islamic terrorism, led by al qaeda, islamic state, boko haram and other islamist organizations.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i supported the proposed resolution to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum, as it has proven to be a successful democratic platform for the exchange of good practice, working mainly to hold discussions on internet governance. the internet is playing an increasingly important role in people's lives and daily lives, while promoting innovation, trade, growth, democracy and cultural diversity. i agree that parliament, together with the member states and the commission, should continue to participate in future meetings of the internet governance forum with a substantial delegation in order to contribute to the effective formulation of a coherent and comprehensive approach of the european union. i believe that the un general assembly should renew the mandate of the internet governance forum, and uphold the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance, so that, among other things, we can improve internet access around the world.
mr. president, i would like to president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the motion because i believe that the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and the observations and recommendations made are correct. the report on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods is of great importance in the range of legal measures that need to be taken to protect the interests and health of consumers. every consumer has the right to know what he eats, where it is produced and who is responsible for any irregularities. the same applies to the control authorities, who will thus be able to monitor and control the supply and trade of meat and meat products. it should be noted that the introduction of mandatory labelling will not harm meat processing establishments. on the contrary, it would lead to a better product, better marketing and increased competition. the truth is that we have a problem right now with illegal imports and dumping of processed meat. it's bad for our businesses. if we shine a light on this sector, it will be to the benefit of meat processing companies and member states. this measure will have a tangible effect on fraud in the food trade and will reduce the share of the grey economy in the sector. in conclusion, the most important thing we should be guided by is to protect the right of consumers to know what they are buying and what they are eating.
in writing. - it's extremely important to know the origin of all the products we consume. consumers expect to be properly informed about what they are buying and their trust should be justified. however, i am not convinced that mandatory labelling requirements will provide the necessary security. i supported the position on voluntary labelling because i think that further research is needed on how mandatory labelling would affect everyone from the retailer to the mass producer. it is desirable to avoid excessive costs and administrative burdens - we need to ensure that mandatory labelling does not create an additional burden for smes in the sector. voluntary labeling gives you time to adapt. in addition, the country of origin or place of origin labelling for meat and meat products does not in itself prevent fraud. strict control, prevention and fight against food fraud must be an integral part of eu policies. that's what's going to restore the confidence of european consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am impressed by your work, by the efforts you have made, and i congratulate you. indeed, right now in iraq and syria, we have completely destroyed states, we have a collapsed infrastructure, we have a vanished statehood, we have a lack of basic needs, we have cities and communities that have no electricity, no water, no roads, no schools. all these things are clear and obvious. but the reason for them is different. and the reason is clear - they didn't happen by themselves. this is not just a natural disaster. and that's why humanitarian action alone won't solve it. the reason for this humanitarian catastrophe is actually the existence of an ultra-radical, ultra-religious caliphate state, such as the islamic state. this state, this caliphate persecutes yazidis, persecutes kurds, persecutes orthodox, persecutes early christians, persecutes shia muslims. this regime is a threat to the lives of the people in these territories as well as in europe. we have to fight them.
mr. chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audience, yemen is a classic case, a classic example of a failed state. a failed state like somalia, a failed state like iraq, a failed state like syria. where there are failed states, there is a rise of radical sunni terrorism. so are the boko haram militias, so is the mujahideen ash shabab militia, so is the al qaeda of the arabian peninsula, based in yemen. this is the real threat to the statehood of yemen, this is the real threat to the european union and to european civilization. because the terrorist organization based in yemen, as you can see, has the ability to organize combat attacks, has the ability to operate on the territory of the european union. this is something the european union must take into account. this terrorist organization must be controlled if there is to be peace.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. shogor, do you not think that the internal order of each country should be determined by the people and the laws of that country and that excessive interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states would ultimately have the opposite effect?
in writing. in its communication to the european parliament and the council of 11.3.2014, the commission in its previous composition acknowledged that the existing mechanisms and procedures proved inadequate to ensure an effective and timely response to threats to the rule of law and fundamental human rights. it has been argued that a coherent protection of the rule of law in all member states is necessary to address situations where there is no specific breach of an existing provision, no 'clear risk of a serious breach' or 'a genuine serious and persistent breach' as required by article 7 of the eu treaty, but where threats to the rule of law are systemic in nature and threaten the political, institutional or legal order, its constitutional structure, the separation of powers or the judiciary, or where national guarantees to protect the rule of law are not sufficiently addressed effectively. i believe that we should do everything possible to ensure that the present commission recognises the application of the rule of law as a priority and continues to work towards the monitoring of respect for eu values in all member states on an equal footing.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, on 28 january the european commission adopted the next progress report on bulgaria's progress on the cooperation and verification mechanism. once again, bulgaria and romania are being singled out for problems with organized crime and corruption. but such problems exist in other member states as well. an example of this is the commission's february 2014 report on the state of play of the fight against corruption in the european union. i believe that the publication of such reports would show the overall picture in the union, thus avoiding a focus on certain countries. another example is the proposal for a european-wide rule of law mechanism to monitor the respect of the rule of law and make recommendations to member states. in december 2014, this mechanism was replaced by a dialogue, once a year, based on the principle of objectivity, non-discrimination and equal treatment of all member states. i believe that these two instruments could replace the cooperation and verification mechanism of bulgaria, which has proven ineffective and represents a double standard applied to countries like bulgaria in terms of fighting organised crime and corruption. in this context, it is high time that the cooperation and verification mechanism for bulgaria was removed.
madam president, commissioner, we were looking forward to seeing mr avramopoulos here with you this evening, who in just a few months' time is due to propose a new holistic policy to tackle europe's biggest problem and challenge - migration - as illegal crossings of external borders have almost doubled in just one year. the greatest pressure is in the mediterranean, but the situation is no less tense on the land border between bulgaria and turkey. in december alone, 1,500 new immigrants have tried to enter our country. illegal immigration from kosovo to hungary is also on the rise. there is a risk of a new severe humanitarian crisis following the events in ukraine. these statistics have serious economic, social and political implications. the people are feeling the powerlessness of both national and european institutions. you asked, commissioner, what our proposals were. the review of existing instruments shows that the risk analyses of the european agencies and member states, coordination and cooperation are not sufficient. rather, the process should start with increasing the capacity of frontex and end with the creation of a european border response corps to respond in 'hot spots' where pressure is greatest. the operations must be carried out under the command of frontex, and the corps must be composed of border guards from the individual member states, and of course the whole process must be supervised by the european parliament.
madam president, commissioner, frontex's work has a number of instruments for protecting europe's borders: the sis-ii system, the vis system, the eurosur programme is being developed, and the pilot project under the 'smart borders' package is about to start. to protect europe, we need above all good cooperation. it would be more effective to introduce an obligation under the direction of frontex to exchange the data collected between the member states' law enforcement authorities and between them, frontex and europol, with a particular focus on the countries entrusted with the responsibility of guarding europe's external borders. and since obligations correspond to rights, and responsibility goes hand in hand with solidarity, i would like to remind you that bulgaria and romania fulfil their obligations to protect europe's borders and security, but despite meeting the admission requirements, they remain outside the schengen area.
madam president, commissioner, the tragedies that occur in the mediterranean almost daily show us that it is time to act decisively. i would like to raise four points. firstly, frontex does not have its own technical equipment and is dependent on the goodwill of the member states. a partial solution to this problem would be to systematically register all assets co-financed by the internal security fund in the frontex equipment pool. moreover, since the end of operation mare nostrum, the question of patrols in international waters, where shipwrecks are most frequent, remains unanswered. what answer do you propose to this dilemma? secondly, cooperation between the different european agencies easo and frontex, but also eurojust and europol should be strengthened, particularly as regards data sharing. this is the only way to strengthen mutual trust between member states and the different agencies and to gradually achieve a genuine integrated border management system. as regards easo, its action is mainly in the field of assistance and training. however, this assistance is provided at the request of the member states and on a voluntary basis. how can we determine priorities and needs in the light of the shortcomings we see in the various member states, for example by involving the european parliament more actively? finally, we must ask ourselves what is happening with the actions carried out within the framework of the mediterranean task force. what can we learn from the work of the task force? what are the practical, viable solutions and best practices to be adopted? we must have the courage and the political will to also set up a genuine migration diplomacy, which also requires a stronger role for the agencies, which can become genuine interlocutors and credible partners for third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, i have to say that the dublin regulations and agreements are extremely unreasonable and unfair because they place the burden on the border states. so italy, greece and bulgaria are now bearing the brunt of a huge refugee flow, a huge migration wave. last year alone, more than 14,000 illegal immigrants entered bulgaria legally. nobody knows how many people are in here illegally. the bulgarian economy can no longer afford to withstand this enormous migration pressure. and here it is your role and frontex's role to find a fairer distribution of this burden and to organise the burden of illegal immigration in a fairer and more responsible way. and here comes the next problem: the problem is with the role of turkey, which organizes the traffic on the territory of italy, on the territory of greece and on the territory of bulgaria. i think you should consider sanctions against turkey, commissioner.
in writing. it is imperative, as regards the market for medical devices, in particular medicines, to pay attention to the fact that there are no clear and workable guarantees for consumer/patient access to medical devices. we are commenting on the issue of access to innovative medicines, which is a problem in some member states. i would like to emphasize that in bulgaria there is a problem not just with access to innovative medicines, but with access to medicines and medical devices in general. in europe, there are structures and informal relationships that distort the market at the expense of consumers, resulting in some of the pharmaceutical companies making huge profits at the expense of citizens. a simple medicine for flu and cold produced in bulgaria cannot be sold in bulgaria at twice the price of the same medicine sold in serbia, turkey or greece. in europe there is a drug mafia that thrives on the people and on the high public spending that goes into buying drugs. it is our duty to respond and put an end to this process because it is unjust. this is no way to do business on the backs of the citizens. i'm sure there are drug cartels and drug monopolies, the question is why do we tolerate them?
in writing. the case of raif badawi in saudi arabia is a vivid example of the violation of basic human rights. there's no other way to comment on his sentence. the european union and the member states are founded on universal values and the inalienable rights of the human person. in our relations with the rest of the world, we affirm and promote these values, striving to achieve the protection of human rights and strict observance of international law. i agree that the european parliament must exert all the political pressure it can to reconsider the verdict in this and other similar cases. however, i cannot agree with the references to the so-called 'islamic state' and 'al qaeda' in the joint declaration adopted in the plenary today. putting a sign of equality between saudi arabia and the so-called "islamic state" is a gross mistake that i will not participate in. i support my colleagues in the epp group who voted against. saudi arabia is an important partner of the eu in the middle east and an influential political, economic and cultural leader in the islamic world. the eu-saudi dialogue should be conducted in a constructive manner. it's the only way we can achieve good results in human rights and reform in the kingdom.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the creation of the special committee on tax regimes. the aim of the new parliamentary committee is to investigate the scandal that has shaken the reputation of juncker and the european union as a whole. the other essential task facing the new commission is to examine the tax regimes of all member states in order to detect and prevent abuses of tax benefits. the juncker scandal has subsided, but speculation has neither been debunked nor confirmed. we must not forget the essence of this scandal, namely that tax breaks and their abuse threaten the overall functioning of the single market, as it is one of the foundations of the european union. the registration of companies in a tax haven for the purpose of avoiding taxation in another member state should be prevented, prohibited and sanctioned. this is not european solidarity, this is not free markets, this is the draining of resources and revenues from the state and the robbing of the people. that is why i believe that as an institution directly elected by the european citizens, it is our duty to impose parliamentary control and to investigate such cases until they are finally resolved. this is not about the reputation of one man or one government, this is about the reputation of the european union itself.
the idea of a common energy policy is certainly useful and should be implemented. however, i am more concerned about how the interests of the member states will be represented in this common energy policy. i'll give you an example: the political wrangling, the disputes and the disagreements around the south stream project have left the bulgarian economy without this potential resource and also potentially probably harmed the economies of romania, croatia, austria and other countries. to give you another example: the potentially useful green energy in my country, bulgaria, has become the reason for the electricity bills to be very high and unbearable for ordinary people. therefore, mr commissioner, this energy policy, in addition to providing europe with various sources of energy, must also look at those that are potentially possible in europe itself, such as the development of nuclear energy, which for bulgaria, for my country, is one of the good opportunities for secure and cheap energy.
in writing. the need for an effective energy strategy to build the energy union is more evident than ever. to overcome the existing over-reliance on external energy suppliers and their high prices, we need a sustainable single european energy system and a functioning internal energy market. the key to energy security is precisely to overcome existing market fragmentation, develop a common functioning energy market and extensive cooperation at local, regional and european level. to this end, we need to concentrate our efforts on developing standards for energy investment, on promoting the improvement of energy infrastructure and the use of renewable energy sources, on improving energy efficiency by reducing energy consumption, on addressing energy transmission challenges and on eliminating regulated pricing that limits consumers' freedom to negotiate prices with their suppliers. however, i believe that the focus of our efforts should also be on protecting consumer rights, overcoming energy poverty and ensuring an open and competitive market for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. i welcome the strategic framework for the energy union presented today by vice-president šefčovič. the first voices about the need for such a union were heard last year, and its implementation has since become a top priority for the commission. the analogy that is needed is for a decision of the same importance to the european union as the creation of the european coal and steel community. moreover, there is talk of a fifth european freedom - the free movement of energy. today we have an ambitious project with the ultimate goal of energy independence, affordable electricity and a competitive economy within the eu. against the background of the objectives thus set, i regret to note that bulgaria is explicitly mentioned as one of the six countries in europe that are entirely dependent on a single supplier, and therefore much more vulnerable. it is enough to recall the suspension of gas supplies from russia in 2009, when the bulgarian economy lost over 250 million euros. it was in bulgaria that we witnessed a gross attempt to circumvent european rules under russian dictation - that of the construction of the "south stream", in violation of the provisions of the third energy package. i hope that the member states will find a way to show more solidarity in their energy policy and hence more common security.
in writing. – i welcome the commission’s framework strategy for a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy. i believe the strategy presents a holistic approach to the multi-facetted demands we european socialists and democrats make to a modern energy policy that equally delivers on climate, economic development and external security considerations. we will work constructively with the commission in order to create a comprehensive energy union. it will lower energy prices for citizens and industry, which will improve the european economy’s international competitiveness, will provide a reliable framework for investments and will contribute to jobs and growth. also, the energy union will make markets less dependent on third states’ energy supply and supply disruptions. such a union will be crucial to meet the eu’s 2030 climate target of 40% reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and makes europe a credible leader in the paris climate change negotiations this december.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the european commission on the rapid development of the strategic vision for a european energy union. i consider this idea to be the biggest project on the road to eu energy integration since the 1951 coal and steel treaty. europe does not have enough energy resources of its own. we will probably be dependent on imports for a long time and hundreds of billions of euros will continue to flow outside the union to buy oil and gas. it is time to come together for greater energy security, to achieve, through trust and genuine solidarity within the union, the provision of energy to citizens and industry at affordable prices and costs. it is time to solve the problem of the countries of south-eastern and central europe: no longer dependent on a single supplier and every winter afraid that the continuing disputes and conflicts along the route will interrupt supplies once again. the ambitious target also requires ambitious solutions for the rapid physical interconnection of member states' energy systems, without which neither the completion nor the functioning of a single energy market is possible. the success of the energy union depends on citizens feeling its benefits in an unambiguous way. only such an energy union focus will ensure a successful move towards an energy-united europe.
and i'll be speaking on counterterrorism measures. we are lacking, mr president of the commission, in a thorough analysis of the means and instruments we have used so far, especially on the eve of the adoption of the new security strategy. we also lack an analysis of the interaction between member states and the interaction of member states with the european agencies europol and eurojust. but whatever new tools we propose, they are doomed to fail unless there is solidarity and understanding for a common fight and resistance against terrorism. a united effort, not each for himself, is the way to success. the schengen system must not be abolished, but strengthened and developed. in this context, the land borders of bulgaria and greece with turkey need special attention and european assistance. it is possible that radical elements and foreign fighters may attempt to cross turkish territory and from there to syria through these borders, following the tightening of controls at airports. the situation is complicated by increasing migratory pressure and canal-building. it is not justified that bulgaria should be a buffer zone guaranteeing the security of the other countries in the european union and be kept out of schengen.
in writing. two weeks ago, eu leaders encouraged meps to adopt the eu passenger name record (pnr) directive, which will be the basis for the eu's new data protection law. such a document would represent a major step towards ensuring better protection of the freedoms and security of european citizens, and i welcome its establishment. the council's discussions of 12 april have demonstrated the need for concrete measures in this direction, once again demonstrating that the institutions of the new mandate are committed to a targeted and practical approach. as an external border of the eu, bulgaria takes the protection of the security of europe and its citizens as its important task. the gerb party therefore proposed an amendment to the resolution on the protection of freedoms and security, which was welcomed by the epp group. according to this proposal, the eurodac system should be used for police purposes. this would enable the authorities of a particular country to work with a database that could help investigations and prevent future crimes. i call on european leaders and my colleagues in the ep to stand behind the implementation of this and other decisive reforms that will raise the level of protection in europe at a time when threats to the security of our citizens are increasing.
there were a lot of different topics discussed. i would like to focus on a more specific issue: bank lending. the ecb's annual report shows an improvement in financial stability, and with that, it is time to turn our attention to longer-term measures to reduce the fragmentation of financial markets and facilitate lending. these measures are essential for the development of business in europe, which is highly dependent on bank lending. alternative sources of financing are insufficient in view of the less developed capital markets, and we must therefore seek to develop the potential of banks. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the measures in force. this is due to the bank debt recorded in the ecb's sectoral stress tests. in early september last year, the ecb reacted to the downturn in activity and took steps to stimulate new lending. so i welcome this authority's decision to provide four-year loans to banks, on the condition that they increase lending to businesses. i believe this measure will act as a powerful tool to facilitate new credit flows to the real economy. i would like to call on the ecb to use all the instruments at its disposal to fulfil its mandate to maintain price stability by stimulating demand and supporting the investments that, together with the necessary structural reforms, are needed to achieve growth in the economy.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr tarabella, for his excellent work as rapporteur, both in substance and form. successful cooperation is all the more important as this report allows us, once a year, to take stock of the progress made, but also of the challenges that remain to be met. i hope that tomorrow we can all, as an institution, vote in favour of this very good report. in 2013, we will note among other things the following progress: we have seen that the legislative pressure is working, with the draft women on boards directive. since the directive has been on the table, there are more women on the boards. the commission has taken stock of the implementation of the 2006 equal treatment in employment directive and has proposed recommendations. finally, the fundamental rights agency carried out the european study on violence against women. we have a database now. head to the action! so we are seeing positive dynamics, but the challenges remain great. in this report we propose new ideas. firstly, the participation of women in the science sector and in the information and communication sector. we also need to focus on using the digital strategy as a lever to promote gender equality. secondly, to encourage women's entrepreneurship to realise their full economic potential, also noting that this can contribute to the renewal of the structures and functioning of the labour market in favour of a better reconciliation between working life and family life. beyond the european social fund, the proposal to consider the use of european funds as a lever to improve women's participation in the economic and political decision-making process. and finally, the eternal struggle against gender stereotypes, especially the role of education and the media. i hope that these proposals will receive particular attention from the other institutions and the member states. i would add that, in order to achieve real progress on gender equality, it is crucial that action is taken at the most appropriate level. the competences of the member states must also be respected. that is the point of my group's amendments, but i am counting on the will of all of us to vote in favour of equality between men and women. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". the stereotypes i'm referring to are the stereotypes that actually prevent women from realizing their potential. stereotypes that still divide male and female roles in our society. stereotypes still refer to school, where girls are taught that there are professions for them and others for men. that's the kind of stereotype i'm referring to. it is clear that today it is necessary to address this in order to achieve equality between men and women.
i want to congratulate all the colleagues in this room who worked on this report, and i want to turn to my colleague, mr. tarabela, and say to him, "mark, you've done a great job because you've presented not just a photographic picture of this problem, but you're looking for and finding solutions". i would add one more thing, however, because we are not talking about third world countries, but about member states. we are talking about black labor, the gray economy, which in countries like bulgaria, for example, reaches 32%, and in the tourism sector even exceeds 60%. the vast majority of those forced to work in this way are women - without employment contracts, without maternity rights, without hospital leave to raise children, without any basic assistance. we need legislation to criminalize employers who use social dumping and exploit women's labour. and another thing, commissioner, today's discussion would sound rather fake if you didn't help unblock the maternity directive and put it back on the agenda of the european institutions.
in writing. mr president, the european parliament, the commission, the council, the member states and all of us as eu citizens must work towards achieving gender equality not just as political declarations but also in the daily practical activities we carry out. the gender equality strategy 2010-2015 has failed to achieve its objectives. the economic gap between women and men is widening, and there is still a significant gap in their participation in the labour market - in their pay, in their pension payments. to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we need to pool our efforts to make progress on a horizontal equality policy. it is necessary for all member states to effectively implement the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation and to update the 1992 maternity leave directive. the adoption of the directive on women on boards would have a positive impact. progress on gender equality policy remains insufficient. i believe that women's equality will contribute to achieving sustainable growth in europe and i call for the systematic and consistent integration of the principle of gender equality in all our activities, structures, policies and priorities.
i'd like to commend mr. messersmith for the tremendous amount of work he's put in. the report is extremely accurate and objective. on the positive side, mr messersmith pays great attention to protecting small and medium-sized enterprises from competition from large companies and cartels. yet these smes employ over 65% of all the people employed in the european union and over 55% of the community's gross value added. it has been rightly noted that in most cases smes are disadvantaged compared to large consortia. of course, in such work some omissions and inaccuracies may be allowed, but they are not essential. the commission has to pay attention to the issues of different interest rates on loans not only for companies but also for individuals. in bulgaria, interest and loan servicing costs can reach up to 50%, while in countries such as germany they are no more than 15%. as regards social dumping and cabotage, i believe that these issues will be resolved when europe stops moving at two speeds and the division between small and large is abolished. and once again, congratulations to mr. messersmith on the job he's done.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner to refer to the third question that our chairman, mr cramer, has addressed to her, namely which measures would the new commission envisage undertaking in order to avoid a further deterioration of the european hauliers situation. i emphasise the new commission because the point that was made was that this was a commission working as a team – not in silos, not each commissioner for himself – so, when a decision is taken by the union, it has to look at all the consequences of this decision, namely the grave losses that the transport sector is suffering and the indirect disruption to the transport market throughout europe. it is no good just to tell us to go back home and look for state aid from our governments.
i support the idea of making such proposals in connection with various environmental initiatives and considerations, but they raise more questions than they answer than they permit. for example, i cannot support the proposals made to amend the maximum size and mass limits in international traffic. i think some of the proposals are too hasty and others are virtually unworkable. first, the reduction of the lower overload limit, after which the freight vehicle is stopped, is unrealistically low. it's being proposed to reduce it to 2%, which is impossible. on the other hand, the idea of reducing the distance for road transport in combined transport from 300 to 150 km in one direction is impractical because there are sections and cases where this is not possible. i would also like to point out that i do not accept the amendments' contention that 'intermodal' and 'combined' transport are completely identical concepts. it is also appropriate to clarify the term 'stop-and-go' as it is obviously a temporary stop-and-go rather than a permanent stop-and-go. it is necessary to specify explicitly that this would lead to problems in the transposition of those rules in some of the member states. in conclusion, i think we should not be concerned with these details but with the social dumping that non-eu countries are inflicting on our sector.
the report that has been proposed raises a lot of questions. long-term investment is an important tool for steering the european economy towards sustainable and inclusive growth, which should be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 agenda. the european long-term investment funds should provide financing for various infrastructure projects, for unlisted companies or for listed smes for an extended period of time through equity or debt instruments. by financing these projects, long-term investment funds should contribute to the financing of the union's economy and the implementation of its policies. but european long-term investment funds will also invest in illiquid assets that are difficult to buy and sell. in addition, undertakings need to be sure that they will be able to dispose of the funds invested in them for the entire period they have declared to investors and that the investors themselves will not be able to withdraw their funds before the specified end date of the investment. rather, attention should be paid to the short-term financing opportunities of smes.
in writing. sustainably overcoming the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in europe is unthinkable without investment. financing opportunities, while available, are often insufficient or targeted at short-term objectives. the long-term financing of the real economy in europe is therefore a priority and must be guaranteed. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) are the instrument that can ensure the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the european economy by mobilising and channelling private funds for long-term investment. the eifs are part of the vision of creating a single capital market, in line with the investment plan for europe. they can provide a steady stream of income for pension funds, insurance companies, professional and retail investors who are willing to invest at least eur 10 000 in one or more eltifs for the long-term to implement projects with a positive impact on the european economy. the implementation of this new investment facility will allow the financing of long-term projects in the fields of transport and social infrastructure (housing or hospitals), sustainable energy, education, research, small and medium-sized enterprises. the successful implementation of the efsi will help to overcome the lack of investment in projects of eu relevance and contribute to the sustainable growth of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that this mechanism is badly designed and a waste of money. with this money we help firms that are close to closing or even bankruptcy, but not with the aim of returning to the market and creating new jobs, but to help the laid-off workers to be reintegrated into the labour market. i fully support the idea of the reintegration of workers into the labour market, but this should be the responsibility of the social services in the country where these workers paid their social security and taxes. why should all european taxpayers pay for this, for this social policy? for the 708 redundant workers in belgium, the fund will pay €981956 and for the 615 redundant workers in poland €115205. on top of that, this money will be paid years after the application is filed, and i don't think the laid-off workers will wait 3, 4 or 5 years to start looking for a new job. the longer a person is unemployed, the harder it is to find a job. that's why i think that before we can continue to mobilize funds, we need to completely rethink and reconstruct this mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i think that the approach taken by the commission and the parliament on these issues is completely wrong. in fact, as can be seen from both the procedure and the regulatory bases, the problem is that the union is losing markets and becoming increasingly uncompetitive internationally. the internal market suffers from this imbalance and europe is being invaded by products that are killing our own production. but i don't see any serious steps to address these challenges. the egf is an anachronism because the aid granted will neither solve the problems nor compensate the workers who have lost their jobs. we need investment to increase jobs and increase growth, not giving away handouts and welfare. the current model is flawed. i would add that my position as a member of the edf group is that this fund is a flawed mechanism from the outset and i am opposed in principle to such ineffective instruments. we need investment to create growth, jobs and skills, not welfare.
in writing. - only months ago we were discussing possible measures to develop the steel industry, and today we are already wondering how to save what has already become unsalvable. i would stress that the egf is an instrument which does not help to improve the situation, but rather tries to compensate to some extent for the deterioration of the situation resulting from the global transformations in the economy. i would stress that the absence of an adequate growth policy, which in turn leads to the creation of new jobs and, consequently, to the improvement of workers' skills and, therefore, their wages, cannot be replaced by the egf. the collapse of the steel industry and the metalworking industry in general is a fact, but it is mainly due to the fact that we are constantly losing markets and positions. the reason for this is that we are imposing rules that make us uncompetitive. as a result, our businesses are losing money, our workers are losing their jobs, and we are dealing with this: should we give them 100 euros per person or not? forgive me, but this is not a growth-oriented approach to employment.
in writing. - only months ago we were discussing possible measures to develop the steel industry, and today we are already wondering how to save what has already become unsalvable. i would stress that the egf is an instrument which does not help to improve the situation, but rather tries to compensate to some extent for the deterioration of the situation resulting from the global transformations in the economy. i would stress that the absence of an adequate growth policy, which in turn leads to the creation of new jobs and, consequently, to the improvement of workers' skills and, therefore, their wages, cannot be replaced by the egf. the collapse of the steel industry and the metalworking industry in general is a fact, but it is mainly due to the fact that we are constantly losing markets and positions. the reason for this is that we are imposing rules that make us uncompetitive. as a result, our businesses are losing money, our workers are losing their jobs, and we are dealing with this: should we give them 100 euros per person or not? forgive me, but this is not a growth-oriented approach to employment.
in writing. ‒ the egf is an inefficient and conceptually flawed instrument. as previous reports have shown, it has a compensatory mechanism. its effect is more than doubtful it leads neither to an increase in production nor to employment. our fundamental problem in both the steel industry and heavy machinery manufacturing is the strong pressure of imports from third countries. i'm aware of the situation because years ago bulgaria was in the same situation. as a result, our production was destroyed. we have become too liberal with the dumping that is being done on our market by suppliers from china, turkey and other asian countries. they're the root of the problem, they're killing our businesses. it's worth thinking about. in summary, our goal should be how to protect our own market, how to increase growth in economies, how to increase employment, how to enter new markets.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's overwhelming vote on a regulation that sets a ceiling on fees for credit card transactions. in recent years, more and more european union citizens have been choosing to pay by card rather than by cash. the new legislation thus voted will harmonise the payment conditions in the territory of all eu member states, including bulgaria. the maximum fee for debit card payments will henceforth be 0.2% and for credit card transactions 0.3%. this is extremely good news for the growth and development of the eu economy, as it reduces costs for consumers and traders. initial estimates suggest that the ceiling voted could save eu businesses around €6 billion a year. it also introduces a requirement for more transparency in the charging of non-cash payments. the effect of all this will be to stimulate competition. we have an example of european legislation at a supranational level, entirely at the service of citizens, which achieves a degree of harmonisation that individual member states could not achieve one by one. this is the european union at its most positive - good for consumers and good for business!
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the introduction of clear rules for more transparency and limits on the fees that banks charge merchants and buyers for debit and credit card transactions, as i believe that such a measure would significantly reduce the costs of cross-border and national card payments. i believe that the standardisation of card payment conditions in the european union will have a positive impact on competition, as it will allow merchants and consumers to choose the card payment schemes that offer them the best terms. this requires the introduction of a ceiling on fees for cross-border and domestic payments. under today's proposal, the agreed limit for cross-border debit card transactions will be 0.2% of the transaction value, with the same ceiling to apply after 5 years for domestic payments. for smaller national debit card transactions, member states will be able to set a maximum fixed fee of €0.05 per transaction. it is also envisaged that they may impose a lower fee for domestic credit card payments. i am confident that today's decision will lead to lower costs for both merchants and buyers, who are currently often obliged to accept all cards on the terms set by the banks that issued them.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with one text in the report which says that you see, the products that are exported to eastern europe lead to job losses in belgium, france, spain. the situation in the eastern european member states is no better. i remind you that we are in a free market and competition and such texts are unacceptable. it is correct to say that we are being crushed by imports from third countries - china, turkey, india, etc. why are we silent about this and why are no measures taken to limit this trend? instead, we're dealing with the allocation of funds for social programs, and it's clear that they're not going to bring growth to economies, or improve production, or create new jobs. the egf is a weak instrument and neither i nor my group support it in principle. on the contrary, efforts are needed to increase growth, access new markets outside the eu and increase employment.
i did not support this report because i fear the interference and regulation of any external factors in family relations. my personal belief, the belief of my political force is that family issues, issues of relationships within families should be traditional and should be as they have been for years. in my country, bulgaria, the family is a traditional relationship between a man and a woman and i strongly object to any supranational decision, whether by the commission or the parliament, to take a stand and to intervene in these family relations. no one denies the right to self-determination, no one denies the right of every individual to make decisions about his own life and health. but family relations, the issues of marriage, the issue of family should be national relations and should be relations that are regulated by traditions, as they have been for centuries.
in writing. ‒ progress on equality between women and men in the european union is a topic of paramount importance, especially since the financial crisis. there is a positive trend in gender equality, but the employment rate for women remains rather unsatisfactory. more efforts are needed to achieve the european objectives in this area. that is why i supported the tarabela report. gender equality is a permanent commitment of the union, and moreover, it is a fundamental right. on the other hand, inequality directly affects our society - it hinders employment, development, economic growth. unfortunately, in the 21st century, factors such as domestic violence and gender stereotypes still prevent women from reaching their potential. my personal belief is that more civic education and equal access to information are key factors in this regard. i believe it is our duty as meps to create the conditions for a better representation of women in business, universities and research centres. change does not happen automatically, more efforts are needed at all levels to enable both women and men to participate fully in economic life.
in writing. - i want to commend mr. messersmith for the tremendous work he's put in. the report is extremely accurate and objective. it is positive that mr messersmith pays great attention to protecting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) from competition from large companies and cartels. yet these smes employ over 65% of all eu employment and over 55% of the community's gross value added. it is rightly noted that in most cases smes are disadvantaged compared to large consortia. of course, with such a huge job, there may be a few omissions and inaccuracies, but they are not essential. the commission has to pay attention to the issues of different interest rates on loans not only for companies but also for individuals. in bulgaria, interest and loan servicing costs are as high as 50%, while in countries like germany they are no more than 15%. as regards social dumping and cabotage, i believe that these issues will be resolved when europe stops moving at two speeds and the 'big' and 'small' divisions are removed. and once again, i want to commend mr. messersmith on a job well done.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is one of the main pillars of building a functioning single market and has always been at the heart of the european project. the gradual establishment of a european single market without internal borders has brought economic benefits to europe and its trading partners. but in a rapidly changing competitive environment, new and new challenges are emerging that europe must address. the report on eu competition policy presented to us by the commission addresses the key challenges in this area and clearly shows that competition policy is moving in the right direction towards the enlargement and development of the internal market. the report recognises the crucial importance of the implementation of competition policy and the guarantee of a level playing field within the single market. i call on the commission to continue to monitor the independence, impartiality and objectivity of competition policy procedures, as they give consumers and businesses confidence in europe's development towards sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ an internal market in which goods, services, capital and people can move freely and in which european citizens can develop their businesses freely is impossible without eu competition policy. we need european-level regulation against monopoly practices, agreements between companies to fix prices and share markets, illegal state aid and so on. competition policy works well against abuse, and as a result we get more innovation and benefits for end users: lower prices, better quality and protection. i support the european parliament's resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy. the text was adopted in the plenary by a large majority: 526 votes in favour to 108 against. this is a clear political message from parliament on one of the union's strongest exclusive competence policies. i would point out that the report highlights important trends in the energy sector, namely that the european gas market should develop towards building an energy union with fair and stable prices, improving the diversification of its energy sources and access to strategic infrastructures. bulgaria has a unique opportunity to benefit from the full coincidence of its national interest with a clear pan-european political line.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because i am against the policy pursued by the ecb. i'm against her being in a threesome. i'm against it because it doesn't pursue policy driven by economic or financial decisions or arguments, but has become a political tool that is far removed from its recognized role. i am against it because the policy of the ecb has not only not led to an increase in gdp, but on the contrary - during this reporting period we are not seeing growth, but a decline. i am against it because despite the policies of the ecb, unemployment is not falling, but on the contrary, we are seeing an increase not only in general unemployment but also in youth unemployment. at the same time, we're saying that it's a problem that we're trying with all the levers we can to solve. i'm also against it because this policy, coupled with the fall in oil prices, will lead all our countries to deflation, from which we will emerge with great difficulty and effort. the report is very well written, but the reality outside is different. and the ecb can be accused of being sympathetic to the problem, of being part of the problem.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, we support in general the report by the rapporteur mr fernandes on the guidelines for the 2016 budget. the priorities are correctly presented as they have been discussed within the budget committee. launching the guidelines for the preparation of budget 2016 we should have two things in mind. firstly, the eu member state economies are already in the 8th year of fiscal consolidation with visible lack of resources to bridge the gap of missing investments. secondly, 2016 will serve as a benchmark of post—electoral multiannual financial framework divisions. the main directions alongside on which the budget should be developed are creation of favourable conditions for economic growth, an increase of employment, which will lead to economic social and territorial cohesion with any member state left aside. in this respect, special emphasis should be put on policies towards growth, competitiveness and employment with the particular highlight on the role of small and medium enterprises and mid-cap companies and on ensuring the proper distribution of european funds. in 2016, the new investment plan proposed by the commission, aiming at mobilising eur 315 billion to stimulate public and private capital investment in europe, shall also be fully operational. while it is expected that the eu budget will fund the biggest part of the guarantee for this european fund for strategic investment, i would like to stress that this eu contribution must not be made at the expense of existing eu multiannual programmes. last, but not least, the 2016 budget has to be provided with a sufficient level of payment appropriations so as to bring real results to the european citizens, to enable the budget to match eu political priorities and to allow the commission to meet its legal obligations. the alde group insists on the conclusion of a structural plan for payment before the presentation of the commission of its draft budget 2016, as jointly agreed among the parliament, council and the commission during the negotiations on budget 2015.
the rapporteur. it is important to recognise that each member state makes its proportionate contribution to the budget and therefore has an equal interest in the most reliable protection of the union's financial interests. the report of the committee on budgetary control, which is before you, was adopted unanimously. however, in the course of its discussion, two different understandings of what adequate protection of the eu budget entails have emerged. it is traditionally considered that the focus should be on restrictions and penalties in relation to the infringements found. but the point is that there are two different types of breaches - one is the result of corruption, fraud and criminal activity. but far more frequent and more widespread are the violations resulting from errors, ignorance of the rules, or overly complex regulations. sanctions therefore need to be combined with active support from member states to both prevent intentional fraud and to decisively limit instances of unintentional infringements. the figures in the european commission's 2013 report are sufficiently indicative of a total of €2 billion and 140 million of financial irregularities, the largest part 840 billion is the result of unintentional deviations from the rules, while the damage from intentional abuses amounts to no more than €309 million. in this context, i would also like to draw your attention to the sensitive issue of interruptions and suspensions of payments in the field of cohesion policy. the text now contained in the report calls on the european commission to follow its policy on the implementation of such measures closely. in this formulation, the wording is half-hearted, because it does not contain the essential meaning of the preventive role of these measures as a means of preventing and preventing infringements. that is both the spirit and the letter of article 325 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which gives priority to the objecting party to measures to protect the financial interests of the european union. it is essential that member states report to the european commission on cases of fraud and unintentional infringements detected. this information helps to identify where problems are and to seek solutions so that similar problems do not occur in the future. however, information on fraud and irregularities detected should not be used to discredit countries. on the contrary, countries should be incentivised to report, encouraged to detect and prevent fraud and errors, to punish and correct them, to address shortcomings and gaps in their control systems. therefore, if it is found that some countries are experiencing difficulties, the responsible european institutions and other countries should assist them through good practices, exchange of experience and information, coordination and training. this is the best way to protect the financial interests of the union in accordance with the requirements and mechanisms of sound financial management and in response to the expectations and requirements of european citizens. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to thank in particular those who worked with me on this report, namely my colleague diana popova, the socialist and democratic party secretariat assistant, mrs kudruca, mr philippe, and the chair of the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, mrs carmen de castillo, for their efforts and for the smooth running of the process.
as a representative of a member state which is undergoing a monitoring report in the field of justice and home affairs, i am particularly sensitive to the subject of the prosecution service and the european public prosecutor's office and corruption. the bulgarian prosecutor's office has not received support from several bulgarian governments, mr. pirinsky, who have shown a high tolerance for corruption. so far, olaf has detected fraud with the funds, but it does not have the powers and competence to protect the european union and its citizens. opponents of the idea of a european public prosecutor's office should be aware that by refusing to create one, the conditions are created for tolerating crime and fraud, whereby the european union is in effect an accomplice to crimes against itself. the influence of the governments of the 28 member states should be reduced in the future european central prosecutor's office. this requires the appointment of a representative of the central prosecutor's office in each member state.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members for all the comments that have been made. we have a huge obligation to our people to use their money wisely and to account for every penny they give to us. the facts are that fraud actually has gone down a bit on the expenditure side: it stands at 0.19% versus 0.21% the year before. but 0.19% is too much and we have to continue relentlessly to push this evil out of the territory of our european project. there was a comment that our accounts have not been signed. our accounts are signed. every year for the last seven years, the court of auditors has signed off the eu accounts but we still have an unacceptably high level of errors. the errors, at 4.7%, far exceed the tolerance of 2% that the court has established and the court has also told us very clearly that we have to simplify the rules. many of you spoke about this. simplifying the rules is necessary not only because then we will have fewer errors but also because then we can have true transparency and people can find out and trace the money. if it is complicated then we cannot do that. we know that transparency is our best friend in fighting fraud and corruption. so i just want to stress that this is the reason we look to parliament as a partner to help us in simplification. we now have rules. unfortunately, in the mff we managed to start from simpler rules and actually make them more complicated in the end but, within the parameters of the mff, let us try to have the foundation for transparency that can help us to use money better and to be more accountable. i completely agree with those who have spoken about the significance of also addressing the revenue side. on the revenue side the trend is in the opposite direction. fraud has gone up a little to 0.29%. obviously we have to take this very seriously because this is foregone revenue for our countries and it is a crime not to be tolerated. i fully subscribe to the notion that prevention is better than cure. preventing fraud and preventing errors is much better than having to respond to them. but we also need to act when wrongdoing or fraud takes place. i believe that if we have a european public prosecutor’s office with the right mandate, which is also able to tackle vat fraud, it will make us more effective, not less effective. this is a notion that i have heard from many here. that, of course, would help us to protect the interests of the european union. and what is in the interests of the european union? it is to protect our taxpayers; and for that we have to be credible in our own activities. this is why olaf has asked the supervisory committee to look into the credibility of data. it is very important that we trust our own office on the data that it provides. that is actually something i personally would follow up. this is not for me to act upon – it is for the supervisory committee – but i am very interested in a good outcome. this is a conversation we will continue. it is an action which should never be stopped and in the end we will be judged by our deeds and not by our words.
rapporteur.– madam president, i believe that the purpose of this exercise is to establish working and effective cooperation between parliament and the commission in truly tackling fraud and irregularities, because it is my belief that the commission in the person of mrs georgieva today has given a very clear commitment to achieving these goals and i think that our overall objective should be to get every necessary support to that effort. i agree with madam gräßle when she says that we have to pay all due account of statistics and i would like to invite colleagues to consider the following data. out of the eur 1.7 billion in expenditure that is subject to irregularities, these represent 1.34% of overall expenditure, which means that over 98% of expenditure has been disbursed correctly. as to the own resources recuperation, eur 380 million – you can find it in the report – are subject to irregularities, which is 1.86% of total traditional own resources. furthermore, in 2013 the volume of irregularities committed decreased by 30% over 2012, and fraud by 21%. i am talking about the values. i admit that the number of irregularities has grown, which requires all our attention, but i do believe, colleagues, that whipping ourselves up into a hypercritical stance is not the best way of protecting the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests - the fight against fraud is an important component of the fight against corruption and the misuse of european funds at european level. in reality, it is part of a package of reports and legislative proposals from recent years, including the proposal to establish a european public prosecutor's office and the directive on fraud involving european funds. however, all these proposals and analyses will not lead to an effective fight against corruption and fraud unless they are backed up by concrete measures at european level and in the member states. i therefore call for the creation of a european strategy to combat corruption, which also covers fraud involving european funds. the strategy aims to set a framework for interaction between the different instruments and policies applied at european and national level and to outline guidelines for how member states and european institutions can combat these criminal activities. i believe that the strategy will also provide a clear picture of the state of play in the fight against corruption and the misuse of european funds across the eu, which in turn will remove the unjustified focus on bulgaria and show that other countries are facing the same problems.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the rapporteur, charles tannock, for his work on the report and for his good cooperation. montenegro is one of the countries showing progress in a number of areas and has recently opened new negotiating chapters. the work on chapters 23 and 24 remains key, and reforms in this area will determine the dynamics of future negotiations. in the past year, a number of decisions have been taken on the appointment of a prosecutor general, the fight against corruption and the effective functioning of judges and prosecutors. black forest has a vision and a plan of action. we now expect concrete measures to implement the legal framework, which will be important for the further integration of the country. ensuring the rule of law is of key importance for the european future of montenegro. montenegro is also a good example of civil society involvement in preparing for the adoption of european union law. at the same time, i expect the authorities to make more efforts to improve the media environment and to detect and stop crimes against journalists. podgorica must not repeat the mistakes of other countries where media concentration and business dependence lead to the distortion of information and the meaninglessness of democracy. as for the other countries of the western balkans, it is very important for montenegro to break with the shadows of the communist past and to walk the path of historical reconciliation and good neighbourly relations, which is the only possible path for european integration. finally, i would like to warmly congratulate montenegro on its solidarity with the european union's decisions on the common foreign and security policy, in particular despite the backlash against the crisis in ukraine, the sanctions and the fight against the islamic state and terrorism.
the fact is that montenegro is the closest to european union membership among the western balkan countries. the progress the country has made in the past year is remarkable. 16 negotiating chapters are already open, including chapters 23 and 24 on fundamental rights and justice, and chapter 31 on foreign and defence policy. montenegro's foreign policy is fully aligned with the european union's foreign and defence policy. of course, the progress made brings additional responsibilities. montenegro must continue with the reform process. the government and the opposition need to improve dialogue with each other on national issues such as the rule of law, the fight against corruption and media freedom. while welcoming the efforts of the european commission, i would like to state that the european project will not be civilisationally complete if the western balkans are not part of it. full integration is achieved through the membership of all countries of the region in nato and the european union.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me conclude by reiterating my appreciation to the parliament and especially the rapporteur mr tannock, for the work on montenegro. your resolution captures the basic elements of our policy towards that country and the acknowledgment of the achievements that have been possible, but it also sends a clear message on what needs to be done now. this year, montenegro should continue working on rule of law issues and focus on delivering results. results should include direct recourse in the fight against corruption and organised crime, as several speakers have said. at the same time, we expect montenegro to continue working on meeting the opening benchmarks set in challenging areas such as competition, the environment, climate change and food safety. the opening benchmarks provide clear guidance on what needs to be done. for the chapters that have already been opened, we will work with montenegro in helping the country meet the closing benchmarks. we have a challenging programme ahead of us and the support of this house will be instrumental in completing it. next month our joint parliamentary committee will meet again in podgorica. this will be a good opportunity to take stock of what has been achieved in montenegro since the last meeting in december and to present the challenges ahead. let us be clear, it is up to each candidate country to ensure that there is progress in the reforms necessary for its accession to the union. it is up to each candidate country to ensure that these reforms bring results that help improve the lives of its citizens. the commission can offer, and does offer, its technical know—how, its expertise and, of course, financial assistance in meeting the challenges of the accession process. strong political will and determination will be needed from montenegro to make progress. this will be required not only of the government but of the whole political system. montenegro’s cross-party consensus on eu accession is a major asset in this endeavour. i was reassured about this during my last visit to that country, when i had the opportunity to meet the european affairs committee of the montenegro parliament. this was further evidence that montenegro and the whole of montenegrin society is trying to meet all the challenges in order to make significant progress when it comes to the future accession of the country. once again, and to stress it again and again, the announcement of president juncker that there will be no enlargement during this period does not mean we are not following up on all the necessary negotiations. it is more about the process than about negotiations, and what we have discussed and what you have discussed today on montenegro, and what we will discuss imminently with other countries, is proof that it is about the process and less about the negotiations. it is about helping countries catch up, to meet european standards and to be ready and mature enough to join the european union at a given moment.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, our debate today showed general support for the european parliament’s resolution on the commission’s progress report. we seem to agree on the point that the work with potential accession countries should continue towards democratic reforms and closer european integration. i am pleased that the speakers, like the council, praised the efforts by montenegro to align with the common foreign and security policy. the council also attaches particular importance to the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights and has urged montenegro to tackle the issues of concern identified by the commission, especially the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the council thoroughly assessed the action plans which montenegro prepared in order to meet the opening benchmarks for the chapters on the judiciary and fundamental rights and on justice, freedom and security. they were of good quality and allowed us to get to the next stage and open the negotiations in these two key chapters. the action plans were revised in february 2015 and re—worked to calibrate and adjust them, with implications for the interim benchmarks set for these chapters. we also agreed that freedom of speech and media independence is one of the fundamental values of the european agenda. it is essential that all attacks on media representatives be properly investigated in order to ensure freedom of expression and citizens’ trust in public institutions. as a presidency, we are continuing the work on accession negotiations with montenegro and are looking forward to opening new chapters during our presidency. so far, the accession negotiations process with montenegro has been quite dynamic. nevertheless, in order to ensure the further opening of new chapters, montenegro needs to deliver tangible results in the rule of law area. the council, as already mentioned, now expects montenegro to keep up the momentum and intensify its efforts to move forward with the reforms and their effective implementation. we look forward to further cooperation with the european parliament and the commission on this subject.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, let me first thank the rapporteur, ivo vajgl, for his work. like the parliament in its draft resolution, the council, in december 2014, welcomed the fact that the eu agenda remained the strategic priority of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. but we note that it will require strong political will and commitment on the part of politicians from the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to continue the implementation of the eu—related reforms. the council broadly shares the view that the country has achieved a high level of alignment with the legislative acquis. however, i would point out that the council conclusions of december 2014 emphasised serious concerns about an increasing politicisation of state institutions and growing shortcomings in relation to the independence of the judiciary and to media freedoms. failure to deliver on these issues has damaged the sustainability of reforms. we will continue to emphasise that the rule of law, fundamental rights and media freedom are at the heart of the enlargement process and that it is essential that candidate countries take decisive, rapid action to address the challenges. as shown by the latest developments, political crises between government and opposition parties are recurrent. the council shares the view expressed in parliament’s draft resolution that a more constructive and inclusive political dialogue is needed. i would urge both the government and the opposition in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to demonstrate political responsibility and engage in a constructive dialogue in order to resolve all the issues that remain open and to accelerate the reform process in line with european standards. concerning the inter—ethnic situation, greater trust between the communities needs to be built. the ohrid framework agreement continues to be an essential element for democracy and rule of law in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we would remind you that the review of the ohrid framework agreement needs to be completed rapidly and its recommendations need to be implemented. the council reiterates that maintaining good neighbourly relations remains an essential part of european integration. this includes a negotiated and mutually accepted solution to the name issue, under the auspices of the united nations. we call for progress towards bringing the longstanding discussions on this issue to a definitive conclusion without delay. in the light of the overall importance of maintaining good neighbourly relations, it is essential to continue high—level contacts between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and bulgaria, and to translate them into concrete action and results. finally, let me add that the council broadly shares the commission’s assessment that the political criteria continue to be sufficiently met, on the basis of the cumulative progress achieved. the council also took note of the commission’s recommendation, reflected in parliament’s draft resolution, that accession negotiations should be opened. with a view to a possible decision by the european council to open such negotiations, the council will return to the issue at some time this year, on the basis of an update by the commission on the implementation of reforms. this will take into account the high—level accession dialogue and the tangible steps taken to promote good neighbourly relations and to reach a negotiated and mutually accepted solution to the name issue. progress in all these areas will be conducive to reaching a positive decision among the eu member states.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, i would like to acknowledge the report which has been prepared by your rapporteur ivo vajgl, which to a large extent corresponds to the findings of our 2014 progress report on the country. i welcome the supportive stance the european parliament has taken towards the country’s efforts in the accession process. in our progress report we repeated our recommendation to open accession negotiations but raised our serious concerns about selective justice, problems with the freedom of expression, politicisation and the lack of constructive political dialogue in the country. the current political crisis has further exacerbated all these issues. i will come to this in a second. as the draft resolution points out, the level of alignment with the eu acquis remains high, but decisive action is required from skopje to address backsliding in several key areas. i share your concerns that delays in setting a date for the start of accession negotiations have added to the frustration of the population in the country and also affected the sustainability of previous reforms as well as the leverage of the union as such. as regards the current political events in the country, i visited skopje in february and expressed my very serious concerns to all political leaders. all of them must step back from the brink. they are all playing with the future of their country. in my frequent and on—going contacts with the political leadership and the opposition, i continue to urge political actors to engage in constructive dialogue within the parliament, focusing on the strategic priorities of the country and all its citizens. they have no time to lose. i also reiterated that investigations are to be conducted by the proper authorities, notably the judiciary, in a manner that is totally independent, transparent and rapid with full regard for due process and the presumption of innocence. in this respect, i welcome any initiative taken by european political party groups and individual meps to help overcome the crisis and welcome their willingness to engage further. the commission will work closely with the meps in this respect. i would like to reiterate that the commission stands ready to provide support, while fully insisting on the separation of powers. the commission could support efforts to improve checks and balances and address failures, for instance through the assessment on continued concerns about the independence of justice. meanwhile, irrespective of the origins of the wiretapping, which needs to be investigated, any potential wrongdoing revealed, along with its disturbing content, must be investigated and appropriate consequences must be taken, especially if it fundamentally impinges on the rule of law and separation of powers. at a time when public trust in institutions is low, all public figures must act responsibly and take accountability for their actions in their own interest. turning to the issue of good neighbourly relations, i agree with you that it is an essential part of the country’s progress towards the european union. while the country has good relations with its western balkan neighbours, relations with greece and bulgaria remain affected. it is of the utmost importance that there are continued efforts to improve the overall climate for cooperation and trust. good neighbourly relations remain an essential part of the enlargement process and the eu’s own history shows that working out compromises on contested issues is the best way to enhance regional cooperation and move forward. i would also like to use this opportunity to highlight the importance of maintaining good inter—ethnic relations. they remain fundamental for the very functioning of the country and its eu perspective. to build on the positive lessons learned so far, the review of the ohrid framework agreement is important and should be soon converted into policy recommendations. finally, let me stress that renewed efforts from all sides are needed to improve relations and trust between parties, and these need to be friendly. therefore, i urge all parties to respect the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press.
on behalf of the ecr group. our western neighbour's perspective is undoubtedly european, but what i ask and insist you pay attention to is the following. the government in skopje must be made very clear that european membership means european responsibilities. these european responsibilities mean only one thing: respect for the rights and legitimate interests of all ethnic communities in the territory of the state, including the bulgarian one. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is still no good-neighbourly agreement between our two countries, and it is key because it requires a few simple things: the cessation of hate speech by skopje, the cessation of the distortion of history by skopje, the recognition of the rights and legitimate interests of all communities, including the bulgarian community, to be able to use their native language, to be able to associate in public organizations and their political organizations. all these issues are key to the continuation of the european perspective of our western neighbour, whom we regard as a brotherly country.
madam president, discussing the progress report on the republic of macedonia, we can indeed say that there has been progress on a number of issues. however, the socialist family is deeply concerned about the political climate in that country. ever since the last elections in spring 2014, which the office of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and the commission heavily criticised, the opposition has been out of parliament. the problem is not just about the current, very sharp and dangerous crisis: the problem is that we have seen this before, in december 2012. then, with mediation assistance by the european institutions, which involved many members of the european parliament, the crisis was overcome, but not for good and not in a sustainable way, because it has now been reproduced in an even worse manner. this time it is not only about political dialogue or its absence; it is a matter of upholding basic democratic standards, which are extremely important for the negotiations. we have to ask – when we speak about the allegations against the leader of the opposition – whether we can really trust the judicial system, which was so severely criticised by the commission. it was the commission which pointed out that this was a selective judiciary, and that it is the basic problem. we can assist and facilitate dialogue but the truth is that the majority party – the government – should lead, and continue with a normal dialogue in the country and with the political process. otherwise the prospects for negotiating macedonia’s accession to the european union could be endangered. lastly, i would also remind our macedonian friends that good neighbourly relations are really important, and that they should show goodwill in order to achieve concrete results and to deliver.
the authorities in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must mature in european values, which make it unacceptable to make policies based on ethnic opposition and the identity of the population. in order for europe to pursue an active accession policy towards fyrom, the governments of this country must satisfy the claims of the old members of the european union, among which are bulgaria and greece. we demand a transparent census of the population in the republic, which will reflect the bulgarian minority, which in all probability will be the majority. i would like to remind you that the last census was in 2002, when only 1417 people were declared as bulgarians, while 50,000 citizens had applied for bulgarian citizenship. we insist on the abolition of any interpretation of the authorities in burm towards the bulgarian history, which is objectively part of the history of the territory of this country. the government of this republic steals identity from bulgarian, greek and even, notice, egyptian history.
i will start with this: the citizens of the republic of macedonia need not strong leaders but strong and transparent institutions and deserve a european future now, not later. unfortunately, the republic of macedonia is currently in a serious crisis. there are no steps to improve the political climate in the country, it is even worse. i have the impression that the government and prime minister gruevski personally are deliberately moving the country away from its european path, manipulating citizens by maintaining a dependent media environment that helps them win elections. this calls into question basic democratic principles. skopje also fails to take the necessary actions to improve the situation of citizens who openly declare their bulgarian ethnic identity, as well as to sign a treaty of good neighborliness with bulgaria. i have already called on the authorities to heed the recommendations of the european parliament and to break with the shadows of the past and the practices inherited from communism. skopje must take a decisive step to improve relations with its neighbours, and i stress, this is also a regional problem. and i'm going to share with you a litmus test of my own for want of good neighborliness. for 7 years bulgaria has been trying to get permission to restore some military cemeteries and monuments, such as the one where the communists blew up the grave of colonel kavarnaliyev. no reply, although according to the legislation of the republic of macedonia we should receive such a reply. it is irresponsible to educate young people in the balkans in hatred and distrust of their loved ones by manipulating history with methods from the totalitarian past. this is not the way to reconciliation and a european future.
in writing. the political situation in the republic of macedonia has deteriorated significantly in recent months, and this is a major obstacle to the country's european and civilizational path. the shocking abuses, the mass wiretapping scandals and the lack of political dialogue threaten the rule of law and even increase the use of hate speech. macedonia is an important factor for stability in the region and the european project will not be completed as intended without the membership of the western balkan countries. in this context, i welcome commissioner hahn's decision to visit the republic of macedonia and to involve the european union in the resolution of the political conflict. the country needs our help and we must immediately propose a political team, on the model successfully applied in albania, to bring all political groups back to the negotiating table and to help find a constructive dialogue. the immediate launch of a public debate is necessary to restart the reform process in the country. political stability is needed to ensure sustainable cooperation, which will accelerate the european agenda of the republic of macedonia and lead to the opening of negotiating chapters for membership.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. mcallister, without a doubt your report is extremely balanced and reflects objectively the development of the situation in serbia. and there's certainly progress, there's a willingness to talk, but there's also a lot of problems. issues not only related to internal affairs in serbia itself, such as freedom of speech, such as freedom of the media or the state of justice. another substantial problem is the bilateral relations between serbia and some of the neighbouring countries. there are still unfinished relations with croatia, there are still laws that in theory have been adopted in the republic of serbia, but are not applied in practice, and this is the example of the non-application of the obligation to teach in bulgarian in the western bulgarian suburbs. commissioner hahn, these are questions that need to be asked and serbia needs to make its decisions on them if it is to develop along the european path.
serbia started negotiations a year ago and has shown a willingness to follow the path of european integration. the key now is for this willingness to be expressed in concrete action and political will for reform. it is important that serbia shares in solidarity the common european foreign and security policy, as colleagues have mentioned, and that it does not succumb to pressure from third countries. the european union and the european commission must therefore help serbia. the country has a solid legislative framework in the field of minority rights, but the application of the law is not always uniform and impartial. the bulgarian minority still has serious difficulties in learning their mother tongue. there are all kinds of political obstacles to this, bureaucratic and financial excuses are being sought why textbooks cannot be translated into bulgarian. at the same time, i call again on serbia, as the report says, to begin to reconcile its own history, to open the files of the communist secret services of the uda and the kos and to make the relevant archives available to the former yugoslav republics. it is also very important that serbia's economic and integration policy includes the border economic backward areas where many of the minority groups live.
i would like to start by congratulating my esteemed mrs lunacek on the serious work we have done together. it was a real challenge for me to be her shadow speaker on this report. the report reflects the situation in kosovo objectively, clearly outlines the problems and outlines the results achieved. it is impossible not to mention the problems, it is impossible not to mention the suspicions of corruption linked to one of the european institutions, it is impossible not to mention, of course, the high level of organised crime linked to drug trafficking and other serious criminal offences. what concerns me most, however, is the possibility and availability of safe haven bases for fighters who travel from europe to the islamic state and who threaten in some way, by returning, our continent as well. this too must be considered.
the year 2014 can be noted as a significant year for kosovo's european integration. the stabilisation and association agreement has been initiated and we expect it to become a reality this spring. the country held elections that were described as democratic and transparent by all international observers. despite a difficult political dialogue between the main political parties, which lasted six months, a government was formed. it is now of the utmost importance that kosovo continues with the key reforms that will help improve the economic environment. the professionalism and transparency of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime and the high levels of corruption remain highly problematic. economic reforms are needed to combat unemployment effectively. in this context, i believe it is timely for the council to adopt a decision and sign a framework agreement on kosovo's participation in european union programmes. this will help the country's economic growth and strengthen cooperation with the european union in various sectoral policies.
a question asked by raising a blue card. you talked about foreign policy, but you didn't mention anything about the islamic state. do you not think that the main issue for the european council should be the crimes of the islamic state, the investigation of these crimes and of the countries that support them, such as the republic of turkey?
the european union continues to face a major challenge rapid economic recovery and growth, and addressing high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. this challenge requires coordinated action and responses at all levels, and the european semester in recent years has produced many positive results that have helped us to overcome the crisis more quickly. today, the determination to put europe back on the path to growth is stronger than ever. our efforts must be directed towards all three pillars of our economic policy and above all towards stimulating investment. the measures in this direction are not limited to the juncker plan, the changes are much larger. they are linked to improving the overall investment and business ecosystem in the european union. stimulating investment, whether public or private, alongside the untapped potential of the single market, especially in the area of network industries, will help to improve competitiveness, job creation and growth. the essence of the european semester is coordination and synchronisation. they can be effective if we have robust rules that apply equally to small and large member states. it is particularly important that member states actively promote investment in line with their fiscal space and pursue structural reforms, especially where negative demographic trends and growth are evident.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the new amendments as they provide for a structural improvement in the objectives and general functions of the general fisheries commission. the proposed measures are vital to strengthen the supervisory and control mechanisms also affecting and protecting bulgarian waters and fish stocks. the new sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms will provide the union with an effective tool to tackle issues such as overfishing, which threatens many native species, and unregulated and illegal activities that have a negative impact on the environment. the european parliament's proposals will strengthen policy in this area and help to make the management of fish stocks in the mediterranean and associated waters more adaptive, responsible and modern.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests because i believe that in a time of crisis and its resolution it is extremely important to reduce the number of abuses. the reduction of abuses will ensure effective and sustainable development within the community, which is a very important objective at this time. the report noted that it was more important for member states not to cover up fraud cases in order to be transparent with the institutions. agriculture is one of the main sectors in bulgaria and access to european funds is vital for producers, but unfortunately there is a high number of fraud and abuses both at national and european level. it is important to reduce the number of such fraudulent practices and to increase the efficiency of the funds allocated by making them more accessible to small producers, as in bulgaria a large part of the funds allocated is absorbed by large entrepreneurs. i also note the problems of smuggling, which is damaging both to bulgarian producers and the budget, and to our partners in the union. once again, i support this report and congratulate the rapporteur on his good work.
i supported the proposed report because it gives a fair assessment of montenegro's progress towards joining the european union. of course, it has its weaknesses. they're related to some degree to freedom of speech, to media ownership. there are of course issues that should also be clarified with the republic of croatia, but overall montenegro is the model and the first in the balkans in the practical application of european standards. not to mention that montenegro has absolute unanimity and absolute agreement with the common european policy regarding the crisis in ukraine, regarding the anti-terrorist legislation related to the islamic state. and of course it has to do with its legislation for individuals on its territory who would be engaged in illegal combat related to the islamic state. that is why i supported this report, which gives a fair assessment of the progress made in montenegro. i wish them luck.
i also supported this report with the clear awareness that we are sending an extremely important message to the government in skopje, namely that bilateral relations must be resolved, that the treaty of good neighbourliness and friendship between bulgaria and macedonia must be concluded, that the practice of hate speech against bulgaria and bulgarian in the media in skopje must be stopped, that the rights of all citizens in the republic of macedonia to unite on their national symbol and principle and to use their native language must be recognized. for the first time in a european parliament document, macedonian citizens with bulgarian national consciousness are mentioned. this is extremely important to me and i hope that this message is clearly heard by the government in skopje. this is the only obligation and guarantee of this government to be able to continue on its path of european integration, knowing that it must use all european rules and practices.
i also supported this report, but we must send a clear message to the belgrade government that on its path towards european integration it must respect european rules, it must respect the rights of every national minority on its territory, recognized by the republic of serbia itself, the rights of every national minority to be educated in its own language, to have textbooks in its own language, to speak its own language. we are talking about the bulgarian national minority in the western bulgarian peripheries, which is recognized by serbia, but until now absolute obstacles and serious problems have been made before this minority can learn its native bulgarian language and use bulgarian textbooks. this must be our clear message to serbia on the otherwise acceptable, otherwise legitimate, otherwise normal path to its european integration.
i also supported this report because the rapporteur, mrs lunacek, had given a completely accurate account of the events in kosovo. of course, kosovo has a lot of problems with organized crime, with drug trafficking, with the difficult economic situation, with many people being forced to leave kosovo. of course, in that report we also recommended the protection of the rights of self-determination and the use of the mother tongue of national minorities, including the goran, and that is the path that this country should follow if it wants to be part of the european family despite the problems. i appreciate the efforts of mrs. lunacek. they're heading in the right direction. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted against mr rosati's report because it is of paramount importance to me and my colleagues from the european conservatives and reformists to protect the sovereignty of the member states and to oppose the additional conferral of competences on the european institutions. i fully support the idea of coordination between the economic, social and financial policies of the member states, but this is, above all, about national budgets and the role played by the european semester. initially, we hoped that the european semester would allow member states to be consulted on their budgetary policies, but it turned out that the european commission had become a controlling body that could oblige member states to pursue one or another budgetary policy. this is completely contrary to our views, since, on the one hand, the national budget is a fundamental element of any sovereign state, and on the other hand, it is unacceptable for an undemocratically elected institution to take decisions of this nature that directly affect the member states and their citizens. these matters should remain entirely within the competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i supported this report because its adoption is imperative because the european council, back in 2012, recognised the need to improve the governance of the single market. the proposals set out in this report are aimed at improving the implementation and performance of the single market, while ensuring full respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. this is reflected in the involvement of national parliaments in the coordination of single market priorities. it is of particular importance to me and to the group of european conservatives and reformists that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are strongly established in all areas and policies, as they alone are the guarantor of national sovereignty in the current form of the union, in which the european institutions increasingly usurp the competences of national legislatures.
in writing. ‒ the eu single market has entered its 23rd year. it has transformed the way europeans live, learn, work, travel, and do business. only in the last three years has a report on the management of the single market within the european semester been included in the annual growth review. i note this to justify my dissatisfaction with the fragile progress on the same recommendations for these three years, aimed at increasing the degree of integration of the single market. otherwise, objectivity requires that we emphasise that it is the path taken towards deeper integration of the eu's single market that is the expression of new political thinking, the key to increasing the eu's competitiveness and a responsible attitude towards a changing world. the action of the member states is paramount to achieving this, and it is therefore essential to build the single market as a pillar of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the issue of sexual abuse of children on the internet is not up for discussion and we must oppose it in every way. this issue is becoming increasingly important in the context of the growing digital society with almost unlimited access to information, which on the one hand has an inclusive effect on the elderly, but on the other hand can pose a serious threat to the youngest members of our society, who are most vulnerable to harmful and inaccurate information. unfortunately, there are too many cases that reveal the imperfections of the current safeguards and it is therefore imperative to put this issue on the agenda. there is a huge need for additional protection, and it is our shared responsibility to work towards creating a secure digital space in which future generations have free access to information.
in writing. ‒ with the development and widespread use of high-speed internet and the transformation of social networking sites into a social and economic phenomenon that has changed the face of communication and information exchange, the youngest and most vulnerable members of our society are exposed to specific risks such as cybercrime, the dissemination of violent content, cyberbullying, the misuse of personal information and data. the resolution on combating sexual violence against children online is of particular importance as it highlights this serious problem and the need to develop a comprehensive approach and a broad strategy to combat violence and exploitation of children online and to protect the best interests of the child.
mr president, there is absolutely no doubt that the dastardly murder of boris nemtsov is one of those killings that have the potential to change the course of events, if not of history. i would invite colleagues to look back to the morning after the murder and the message sent by a no less well—known figure, sobchak, at the murder scene when she said ‘let us all stop’. what she meant was: let us all back down. i think she struck a note in russian society which woke up to the understanding that a very dangerous line had been crossed, and that each and every citizen in russia has to think about what is going to happen. war has been mentioned many times in this debate. we have to think very carefully as to our input, and in which direction events will evolve.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate and thank mr brok for his excellent report, which offers both a genuine strategic vision of the union's foreign and security policy and concrete measures to improve it. i would like to stress three elements. first of all, i would like to thank you, mrs mogherini, for your great contribution to raising the profile of our action. let's keep it that way. and in this, the special representatives also have a key role to play. we need to give them a higher value for their work. at the operational level too, we must continue to seek to provide ourselves with adequate means to enhance this visibility. secondly, the coherence between our internal and external policies. strengthening ourselves externally will bring benefits internally. let us consider some examples, particularly on sensitive subjects such as migration. coherence must also be ensured both at council level and in third countries between union delegations and embassies. it's a matter of credibility. finally, cooperation with regional organisations. working with the african union, the arab league and the gulf countries gives us the chance to better fight terrorism, to better cooperate, to the benefit of all citizens.
mr panzeri has obviously done a lot of work on this report, but we in the group of the european conservatives and reformists have some remarks to make. we do not agree with the inclusion of topics related to development, trade, fiscal policy, climate, refugee policy and asylum. we also think that the report crosses the line with its criticism of the member states of the european union, for example lithuania, croatia and slovakia, in terms of their domestic policies, in terms of the family. we believe that each country has the right to decide through its own internal referendums such important issues in its own traditions as the family. separately, i personally think that more attention could have been paid to the victims of the islamic state and the complicity of the countries that support it, such as turkey.
madam president, madam mogherini, the resolution of the libyan crisis is clearly a priority, indeed an emergency, because we are all directly affected and that is why we need a strategy that is up to the challenge. first, we must continue to support the negotiating process under the auspices of the united nations, with a view to a political solution to the conflict. but we also need to strengthen diplomatic efforts and find concrete levers that allow us to move towards the union of all parties against the expansion of the islamic state. in this context, a few observations. let us make sure that all efforts are in the same direction and that the countries in the region also have sufficient leadership. secondly, perhaps we should think of a plan b which could also be a lever in the discussions that are taking place. what would we do if the talks came to nothing? let us have the courage to ask that question too! thirdly, i shall stress the issue of reconciliation. we must reach agreement at national level and, above all, promote reconciliation and unity at local level. good luck to the mayors and local elected officials! and i'd like to draw attention to the women. the full participation of libyan women must be ensured so that they contribute to sustainable peace and security for future generations. and yes, the european union can make a difference in dealing with the consequences of the crisis. to deal with the humanitarian situation, to give full support to the countries that are hosting refugees: that is what we are asked to do, because in the end, to anticipate is to be better prepared, and that is where the european union can make a difference.
terrorism is the greatest threat to the world today. it threatens all citizens, regardless of their ethnic or religious affiliation. i welcome the diplomatic efforts initiated with the league of arab states to act in a comprehensive and coordinated manner against the threat of terrorism and extremist violence. madam minister, the fight against terrorism must ensure full respect for international human rights standards. sharing intelligence with third parties and creating tools to curb the financing of terrorist organisations is essential. i see the proposal initiated to create a 'security officer' post in the european union delegations as an opportunity for better coordination. another instrument is the strengthening of security cooperation in the renewed european neighbourhood policy. alongside the creation of a european strategy to combat international terrorism, we need to deepen intercultural and interethnic dialogue among all countries. this dialogue must take place both within and outside the european union. i believe deeply that freedom is the backbone of security, and that diversity and variety are the foundation of any freedom.
in writing. extreme liberalism and illegal migration have allowed a clash of civilizations to take place in the heart of europe. on one side, the european christian civilization, and on the other, those determined to impose their salafist order and rules. the increase in extremist attacks and the growing anti-semitism are a direct result of the spread and preaching of radical salafi islam. the best example of this is the paris attacks, where radical islamists born and raised in france shot dead 17 people, four of them jews. europe today has no islamophobia, but diversity and freedom of expression. movements like pegida are europeans' response to attempts to change the face and spirit of europe. europe is founded and built on christian values and only by preserving them can it survive.
i am a supporter of this resolution because i believe that the atrocities that the islamic state is inflicting, both on the destinies of millions and on the world's cultural heritage, are unacceptable and we must offer security to those who suffer and find adequate ways to preserve at the local level a heritage that is at great risk of destruction. the atrocities that the terrorists of this self-proclaimed caliphate are committing, especially towards people of other faiths such as the assyrian christians in the region, are shocking and should not be the stuff of media and pr campaign of european and world politicians, but to provide adequate channels.... (speech is suspended)
the act of kidnapping hundreds of children is unacceptable, no matter what end of the world we're talking about. the events in south sudan have been a hardship for the local population. however, europe must play an active role in finding ways to address this and other similar challenges together with international organisations, because conflicts around the world are increasing every year and more and more minors are either suffering or being drawn into them. the situation in the country is particularly critical. schools there are used for military purposes, and youngsters are taken and trained as soldiers. according to international organizations, more than 400,000 children have been forced out of school in recent months because of the conflict there. that's nearly half a million children who become at-risk. i am of the firm opinion that the european commission should help to mobilise resources for the long-term reintegration of children who have been involved in conflicts, and this should be done in coordination with the un special envoy for children in armed conflict, unicef and other agencies.
i supported the joint resolution on child sexual abuse online because i believe that the increasingly digitised world we live in does not provide sufficient protection for adolescents from the dangers that exist online. it is clear that children are starting to use the internet at an earlier age and this requires us to ensure that they do not feel uncomfortable and that they are in a safe and secure environment. we can only achieve this through partnership and collaboration between institutions, ngos, the media and business representatives. we need to support educational and awareness-raising initiatives, both for minors and for their parents, guardians and teachers. i call on the commission and the governments of the member states to engage with representatives of alternative payment systems for more effective cooperation with law enforcement authorities to achieve better identification of payment processes related to the commercial distribution of child abuse material.
in writing. i did not support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu's policy on russia over the past year has not produced any constructive results, but on the contrary has caused difficulties for millions of european citizens and cannot continue in its present form. the murder of boris nemtsov is undoubtedly an act which i condemn and i believe that the relevant authorities of the russian federation should make the necessary efforts to clarify the circumstances surrounding this murder. at the same time, however, i do not think it is within the european parliament's competence to assess the russian approach, which is done through this text. instead, we should look for ways to melt the ice. with such texts we build new walls in europe. i believe that such acts only worsen the already strained relations between the eu and the russian federation. the union must offer solutions to the difficulties faced by european citizens. a number of our citizens and industries, such as agriculture and tourism, have been affected, especially for countries traditionally known in the russian market, such as my country, bulgaria. i believe that the text of the resolution in this regard is unnecessarily provocative and one-sided and does not reflect the lack of adequate policies on the part of the eu regarding compensation for its citizens and member states for policies that are decided in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted abstention on the report by mrs brock on the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. i believe that the report has its strengths, such as the threat posed by the islamic state, the situation in ukraine and the serious terrorist threats faced by many eu member states. on the other hand, however, i cannot help but note that the report draws general conclusions which in no way contribute to the development of the common security and defence policy of the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the memorandum of cooperation between the eu and the league of arab states because, as a representative in the european parliament and a member of the foreign affairs committee, it is extremely important to me to find strategic partners in the fight against terrorism, and in particular against the islamic state. the resolution includes important elements such as the need to take measures to limit uncontrolled migration and the lack of accurate data on the number of european citizens who go to be trained as terrorists or to take an active part in military action on the side of terrorist organisations. i therefore believe that the european parliament should call on the european council to develop a cooperation mechanism to enable the tracking of migration and the reduction of arms trafficking. an important partner in our fight against the terrorist group islamic state is the member of the league of arab states, jordan. my personal belief is that the fight against the islamic state must be fought not just by air strikes, but by ground military action.
in writing. i voted for the resolution because it stresses the essential points. first, our cooperation must be translated into concrete action. a multidimensional approach is needed, which takes into account, beyond security, cultural, religious and socioeconomic aspects. promoting the exchange of good practice, as well as developing and disseminating a common counter-narrative to religious extremism, are key actions. in addition, we insist on the development of a common early warning and crisis prevention mechanism. intensified political dialogue must make it possible to avoid getting bogged down in crises that we are unable to resolve and to promote the role of mediator of certain countries and cohesion towards a peaceful and democratic development of the region. finally, the sources of funding and recruitment of terrorist groups must be cut off. the eu has to increase its political pressure and build up its capacity on the ground, particularly at the borders.
in writing. i am of the opinion that the approach taken by the european council on eu policy towards russia over the past year is not producing the desired results and needs to be changed. at a time when our citizens, and especially those employed in agriculture and tourism, are expecting us to adopt decisions and policies to support and protect them, the european council is dragging us into a new cycle of sanctions extensions. they affect not only the relationship at the level of governance, but also millions of citizens and entire economic sectors, especially in europe. farmers in my country, bulgaria, took the news with fear because they remember what happened after the imposition of similar sanctions last year - they were in merciless competition with thousands of other european farmers for the severely inadequate compensation, which ran out in days. it is our responsibility to dispel that fear and give them the confidence that better times will come to them very soon. solidarity is becoming increasingly alien to the european union, and the gap between the decisions taken by some european politicians and the real problems and needs of the average european is widening. the solutions must be sought for the benefit of the ordinary citizen and put into practice as soon as possible.
in writing.– the annual tax report is an important exercise as it addresses issues such as tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, which pose a threat to both the nature of the single market and the image of the eu. as an integral part of the european single market, the digital single market is also highly dependent on the tax legislative framework the eu is shaping. this framework should enable the core aim of the digital single market – establishing a single market that gives equal conditions for production and trade for any european over the internet. i thus welcome the report, which calls for treating e-products equally with their physical alternatives with regards to taxation issues. currently, e-commerce presents a major challenge for tax administrations, given the often multi-jurisdictional nature of the transactions and the potential anonymity of the parties. the eu should therefore push for policies that make it easier to do e-commerce. the proposal in the annual tax report that invites the commission to come up with a clear legislative framework to ensure equality between electronic and physical products is a good first step, yet there is a further need to review all eu tax policy from a digital market perspective.
(ecr) is used. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine's economy is undoubtedly in a very difficult situation, the country is in a severe economic crisis and its currency is depreciating. from this point of view, this loan may be a lifesaver and necessary, but i would ask both the rapporteur and the commissioner to monitor very closely the expenditure of these funds so that they go where they are needed and not into the hands of those who are still fighting each other in the streets of ukrainian cities. and i would ask for one more thing: that this loan be linked to a serious commitment by the ukrainian government to reform, especially in the area of preserving the human rights of national minorities, which in the state of ukraine are actually more than even the indigenous population. i remind you again, the number of the bulgarian minority there alone is more than half a million.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the decision to grant macro-financial assistance is of the utmost importance for the implementation of political and economic reforms in ukraine. our relations with ukraine are developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and we must support the government's efforts to reform. the military conflict, which has led to the violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, has had a detrimental impact on the ukrainian economy. the so-called 'minister of foreign affairs' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. as a result, the country's economy has shrunk by more than 20% in the last year, and direct budgetary expenditure related to the conflict has further impaired ukraine's balance of payments and liquidity. in this context, i consider the granting of financial assistance to be a fully timely measure, because the country's needs for external financing are significantly higher than initially determined. for its part, the ukrainian authorities should reaffirm their commitment to reforms in line with the framework provided for in the association agreement and present a clear action plan.
(ecr) is used. why should we make german companies into monopolies? minimum rates of pay in transport must take account of the legal wage rates in each individual member state of the european union. if employers of truck drivers from the poorest country in europe - bulgaria - were obliged to pay minimum rates of french or german standards, it would be a killer for the bulgarian transport industry. centralized wage setting is absolutely not possible across the european union because of the huge differences in the standard of pay. it is in the interest of national economies that minimum rates should be set by national legislation and that the remuneration of workers in transit should not be subject to centralised regulations by the european commission. i would remind you, commissioner, that the fundamental rule of the european union is the free movement of goods and people.
in writing. the german proposal sounds very good, but the truth is that this measure is also being introduced to restrict access to foreign companies in germany. according to the rules adopted by berlin, all wage-earners, even those who are passing through germany, must be paid 8.5 euros per hour. thus, bulgarian hauliers would be obliged to pay similar wages plus travel expenses. that makes them uncompetitive and they'll just refuse to work in germany. this idea of germany to restrict carriers from bulgaria, poland, lithuania and other european countries is intended to benefit german carriers. one day the big member states talk about free markets and competition, and the next day they adopt the exact opposite measures in their national legislation. incidentally, france also applies this approach and tries to discriminate against carriers from small countries. france is trying to introduce rules that require drivers to sleep in hotels, which disrupts their routes and increases the cost of transport. all these seemingly insignificant measures are aimed at restricting small countries. it's a form of protectionism. however, when it is applied by germany and france, it is supposedly legal, and if we decide to do it, we will be sanctioned. that's the double standard we're fighting against.
in writing. the german minimum wage act in force since 1 january 2015 in the transport sector has raised a number of concerns about its compliance with eu law, in particular with the internal market provisions and the posting of workers directive. the introduction of a minimum wage of eur 8,50 per hour worked in germany is a protectionist measure of its own, which has a number of negative consequences: additional administrative costs for transport operators, increased transport costs to find alternative routes and higher prices for the end user. the new rules are particularly unfavourable to small and medium-sized international carriers. according to the international road transport union (iru), the implementation of the law is associated with an increase in their administrative costs by an average of eur 65 000 per year, which may force many of them to leave the sector. bulgarian carriers are particularly concerned about the expected significant additional administrative burden that the new law will impose on foreign transport operators, as well as the lack of clarity on its practical implementation and the risk of heavy financial penalties. i therefore welcome the commission's detailed study of the german law and the german government's imposition of a moratorium on its application to transit transport by foreign carriers.
- what? the chair, madam commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. minister, 70 years after the atrocities of the nazi regime, the issue of the recognition of the genocide against the roma is again on the agenda of this institution. today, the roma are the largest ethnic minority in the european union and at the same time the most marginalized community. unfortunately, a large part of this community continues to suffer discrimination and social exclusion, as well as being the target of racist attacks. and this is happening within the european union, the pillar of freedom and human rights. that is why we must recognize this barbaric act of world war ii and share the suffering of the roma as a historical lesson that must not be repeated. tens of thousands of roma were killed in the death camps and our children should know about the sad events of the past, because this is the best lesson in the fight against discrimination. we must continue to protect minorities on their path to integration. this is part of our political responsibility, because freedom and equality are at the heart of the european union's value system.
in writing. i did not support this resolution because i believe that the loan envisaged by it in its current form will not lead to the expected results for both ukraine itself and for the stability of the region in the medium and long term. i believe that a solution to the conflict in ukraine must be found as soon as possible. we europeans have relied on the minsk agreements as a way of achieving a ceasefire there, but the text of the resolution voted on did not support this. in addition, i believe that with such a loan europe makes the country even more dependent on external financing, which will only delay the finding of lasting and effective solutions for the ukrainian economy. i believe that we as envoys of the european citizens have a responsibility to them and they must be assured that their own contribution to the stability of the european continent will not be misused to maintain or increase military instability. unfortunately, the final text does not contain this call, which prevents me from giving my support to this resolution.
the revision of the multiannual financial framework to delay the implementation of key projects is an important and necessary step and, as this debate shows, is the subject of consensus in both the european parliament and the commission. the carry-over of unused commitment appropriations to the next financial period is key to the launch of the new programming period and is, in this sense, closely linked to the european union's efforts to create a more competitive and prosperous economy. as we know, the latest agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 delayed the adoption of the legal acts of the european structural investment funds for that period. these delays have a negative impact on the economies of the member states and are associated with significant losses. the structural funds are the union's most important investment policy and their effective preparation and use of european resources will generate growth and jobs. all european countries must have equal access to finance and support from the union's institutions. i therefore welcome the commitment made at the beginning of the debate by commissioner georgieva that the commission will work more closely with member states and regions, which will facilitate not only a rapid start of programmes but also their successful implementation thanks to the full and efficient use of all resources. the regions and the member states cannot afford to waste any more time. economic development requires immediate action and real support.
mr president, the revision of the mff has been made necessary because of three major delays: in adopting respectively the mff and the regulations concerning the eu funds, and in the approval of operational programmes. in practice therefore, in the course of 2015, member states will need to commit the amounts which were previously envisaged for two years – 2014 and 2015. furthermore, 2015 is the last year for absorption of the funds from the previous programming period. all this means exceptional pressure on the responsible authorities to comply with the relevant requirements for proper commitment of resources. hence there might be a significant increase in the number of infringements for which member states could easily be faulted. really effective protection of the financial interest of the union begins with the provision of enough time for the proper preparation and implementation of the relevant budgetary rules and regulations.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the european structural and investment funds are the union's most important investment policy and it is of paramount importance that all resources are used in a timely manner and as efficiently as possible to bring about growth and job creation. as the representative of the poorest country in the european union, bulgaria, it is of paramount importance to me that all the operational programmes function properly, as i have been closely watching entire regions being depopulated because they have no prospects, no economic growth, no education, no health care. that is why i consider this proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework to be of paramount importance, since by carrying over appropriations by one year, delays in payments for many operational programmes will be avoided, which would have negative consequences for regions and cities and therefore for european citizens. i would hereby ask the commission to bear in mind article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which obliges the eu to develop and implement its own initiatives leading to the strengthening of its economic, social and territorial cohesion, and to pay particular attention to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition and regions affected by serious and persistent adverse natural or demographic conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not take the floor to talk about history, much less to debate historical subjects, because i do not think that is what is expected from the european parliament's rostrum. and i confess i don't feel competent, not because i haven't read any book about the events that provoked the draft resolution we're discussing, but because i'm convinced that having read or heard something on a subject may be enough to form some personal opinion, but it still can't give you the self-confidence to turn that opinion into a general one. ladies and gentlemen, controversial historical events must not be transformed into modern political conflicts. historical facts, when they are facts, will not cease to be facts, whether one denies or accepts them. i plead against the self-serving political use of historical facts, against the self-serving digging into the past, against the choosing of confrontational themes from it. turkey and armenia are mature enough and advanced enough in their democracy to resolve this issue through dialogue between themselves. the debate in the european parliament today is unlikely to contribute to that. no, they would make it difficult. to conclude, i was born in the balkans, a region that is marked by severe conflict, but also by a unique ethnic tolerance. mr. chairman, the great balkan poet and nobel prize winner ivo andrić in his work writes about the bridges we must walk together towards the future, not return to the past. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. kuciuk, as a representative of a party whose name has the words "rights and freedoms", do you not think that crimes against humanity and genocide should be condemned and those who committed them should bear their political responsibility? the armenian genocide and the destruction of the thracian bulgarians is an undeniable historical fact. you can read it and ask any expert on the subject. my question is: do you think genocide should be condemned and denied and those who committed it should be held accountable?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, the blue card procedure involves the holding of a dialogue. i don't think that my colleague angel jambazky is having a conversation with me. apparently he didn't hear my call for a tolerant and dialogic world. so, mr. jambazki, i won't be able to accommodate you with my duplicate.
what i hold in my hands is a memorial - a symbol of homage, adoration and respect for the memory of one and a half million armenians and hundreds of thousands of victims of other nationalities of the genocide committed by the young turk government. this monstrous crime against humanity began in 1913, when the regular turkish army and the bashibozuk ravaged hundreds of bulgarian villages in thrace, killing and driving hundreds of thousands of bulgarians from their homelands. the genocide continued in 1915 and 1916, when the young turk government ordered, organized, and carried out the physical extermination of more than one and a half million armenians within the borders of the ottoman empire. the aim of the turkish authorities is to kill and expel all nationalities other than turkish. this monstrous genocide must be condemned in the strongest terms. the turkish government, the successor to the ottoman empire, must be forced to admit its guilt, to take political responsibility and to compensate the heirs of the victims. i strongly condemn the turkish genocide of the armenians, bulgarians and other peoples of the empire. that is why i have proposed, signed and support the european parliament resolution condemning the turkish atrocities and the armenian genocide. i end with the motto of the armenian community, dedicated to the centenary of the genocide: "i remember and condemn, i remember and demand, i live and remember, i live and demand".
mr president, here in the european parliament today we mark a sad anniversary - 100 years since the armenian genocide, which claimed over one and a half million human lives and caused immeasurable suffering and suffering to the ancient armenian people. different interpretations of the past continue to create contradictions and divide nations and peoples. the overcoming of these divisions can only be achieved through historical reconciliation and on the basis of the recognition of objective truth and the facts of history. today we pay tribute to those who died during the armenian genocide. but let us also remember the other ethnic groups within the ottoman empire, subjected to centuries of persecution, among which is the bulgarian population, which especially in the second half of the 19th century became a victim of the bataclan massacre, the bloody pogrom against the april uprising and many other such events that shocked and horrified the european public of that time. history should be a source of wisdom and unity, and i hope that the republic of turkey will find the moral strength and courage to walk with armenia on the path of cooperation in the interests of the citizens of both countries and the prospect of european integration. we must not allow the dark shadows of the past to linger over our present and our future. a tribute to the memory of the victims of the armenian genocide and all the victims of crimes against humanity!
mr president, mrs georgieva, colleagues, with today's resolution the european parliament is sending modern turkey three messages of particular interest to turkey itself. first, unconditional recognition of responsibility for the armenian genocide will be conclusive proof that today's turkey unequivocally breaks with the tragic legacy of the ottoman empire and does not share any neo-ottoman tendencies today. secondly, it will also be a clear sign that the turkish leadership is capable of a modern european consciousness and an unambiguous ability to take responsibility for the darkest pages of its country's history not as self-deprecation but on the contrary as a testimony to the maturity and wisdom of a modern turkey. and thirdly, it is precisely such recognition that is the right path to historic, future-oriented reconciliation between turkey and armenia, a truly necessary development as an extremely important positive contribution in the current extremely acute geopolitical reality.
madam president, mrs georgieva, it is imperative that the european commission sets a convincing example of non-discrimination and equal treatment in employment and the exercise of the right to work by introducing clear and binding rules for the employment of people with permanent disabilities on a quota basis in the european institutions. the 2000 directive introduced a general framework for non-discrimination in employment. it is essential that this measure, together with the other founding documents of the european union dealing with the equal rights of persons with disabilities, be put into practice. in this context, the european commission should also consider the barriers in state aid regimes that limit the possibilities of protecting people with disabilities against discrimination and unequal treatment in employment and the exercise of labour rights.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, fair competition of knowledge and skills is essential when recruiting staff for new jobs. but people with special needs are in most cases disadvantaged in this selection, even if they have a strong aptitude for the particular job. these people face and overcome all kinds of difficulties every day, and they face and fight all kinds of discrimination. their integration into the social and working environment continues to be one of the greatest challenges across the union, even though the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities was one of the first conventions ratified by the eu. progress is too slow and barely noticeable. so i think it's time for more radical measures, to adopt the affirmative action approach to people with special needs. the introduction of mandatory quotas for the employment of people with disabilities in the european institutions is one such measure. moreover, 21 of the 28 member states have such quotas in place. the european institutions are lagging behind eu countries instead of setting an example. quotas do not solve everything, but good practices for positive discrimination based on the skills and abilities of these people will gradually be established and can be followed by member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise a matter with you, namely the protection of nature, and in particular of forests as part of the environment, by giving you a specific example. i have shocking video footage showing the naked cutting of a sixty-year-old pine forest over a bulgarian village of banja, razlog municipality, blagoevgrad region. even more shocking is the fact that this forest is being destroyed to build a landfill in its place, and with european funds. i wonder what the european commission and the european taxpayer think about the fact that european money from their taxes is being used to destroy a 60-year-old pine forest and build a landfill. i think that is unacceptable, and i think that spending european money on the destruction of nature and the forest is, to put it mildly, unreasonable. i think that the european commission should carefully investigate the facts, circumstances and documents surrounding the spending of european funds, in particular for the construction of this landfill in the village of banja, municipality of razlog, blagoevgrad region.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that this mechanism is wrongly constructed and its meaning is that millions of euros have been drained without any effective result. in the case of mory-ducros sas, a french company operating in the 'road and pipeline transport' sector, i do not see any reason for retraining the workers, as these modes of transport are about to expand their influence within the european union. eur 6 052 200 will be allocated to 2 804 redundant workers. this financial resource is huge and i think the effect will be minimal. with this money, we're not going to create new jobs, but instead we're going to try to do the work of social services in the country where these workers have been paying their social security and taxes. on top of that, this money will be paid years after the application is filed, and i don't think the laid-off workers will wait 3, 4 or 5 years to start looking for a new job. the longer a person is unemployed, the harder it is to find a job. that's why i think that before we can continue to mobilize funds, we need to completely rethink and reconstruct this mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs ulvsko, which approves the council's proposal to set up a social protection committee. the establishment of this committee is clearly stated in article 160 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the purpose of the committee, as laid down in the treaty, is to promote cooperation in the field of social protection policy between the eu member states and between them and the commission. it also monitors the social situation in the eu and the development of social protection policies in the member states. the social protection committee also produces reports on social inclusion, health, long-term care and pensions. i believe that the establishment of this committee is essential, in particular for the poorer eu member states, who need guidance and support to deal with the social crisis they are facing.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of a social protection committee because i strongly believe that the search for a common approach and, above all, common rules guaranteeing social protection is of the utmost importance for all eu citizens. a few days ago in my country, bulgaria, two women died in a work accident. the conditions under which these pick-up workers from the peripheral region were transported show that the worker's right to decent working conditions and pay is being violated. in the interests of social justice and the protection of our citizens, i believe that we must seek pan-european mechanisms to guarantee the protection of these rights. labour exploitation and social blackmail must cease to be tolerated in any eu member state. i very much hope that the social protection committee, with its establishment, will be able to make clear and effective recommendations to the commission for guaranteed protection for every one of our citizens, regardless of the member state, region or economic sector of employment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms ulvsko for a council decision to set up an employment committee. this committee will help coordinate the employment policies of the member states. the employment problem, and particularly that of young people, is one of the main challenges facing not only individual member states but the union as a whole. i believe that action at european level is needed to tackle it, because its scale makes it impossible for countries to tackle it alone. in many areas of eastern europe, entire regions are being depopulated and people are being driven out of work by labour migration. this process must be stopped because it poses a serious threat to the very existence of the union.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the economic crisis, the high levels of unemployment and especially youth unemployment, the vote in favour of the decision to set up an employment committee is of the utmost importance. the committee will monitor the overall development of employment issues and policies, and work to develop cooperation, exchange of good practices and macroeconomic dialogue between member states. i believe that the creation of an employment committee will stimulate the improvement of conditions in the european labour market and economic growth in general.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of the employment committee, although i believe that such an organisation should have been set up earlier, at the very first symptoms and effects of the economic crisis that has been going on for several years now and which has also had very severe social consequences throughout the european union. i believe that this committee should take ambitious action in the social field, particularly in the policies affecting european youth. as one of the biggest victims of this economic and financial crisis, many young people, especially in europe's smaller economies, have lost hope of realisation and of support from the union. i also think that the employment committee should pay particular attention to a social initiative that still seems to be underestimated: volunteering. i believe that by recognising it as a work experience and by increasing its legal status across the european union, we will enable civil society and entrepreneurship to help tackle unemployment. the severe floods last year in my country, bulgaria, showed that volunteering is a social investment, so i call on the newly established committee to treat this issue as a priority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 because, as the representative of the poorest country in the european union, bulgaria, the proper functioning of all operational programmes is of paramount importance to me. the bulgarian citizens hoped that with bulgaria's accession to the eu, our country would experience economic growth and an increase in living standards. unfortunately, this process has been hampered by a wide variety of factors, such as the economic crisis, demographic problems and, not least, the internal migration process within the union itself. all of this has led to the depopulation of entire regions in my country, because they have no prospects, no economic growth, no education, no health care. in addition to my support for the report, i call on the commission to review the principles for granting projects in the member states and to apply genuine article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. last but not least, the commission must work with the member states and regions not only for the rapid adoption of all other programmes but also for the careful implementation of the programmes themselves in order to achieve full and efficient use of all resources.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) ensures consistency in the development of eu spending. it sets annual ceilings (maximum amounts) that the eu can spend in the different areas of its activities. the current revision of the mff for the period 2014-2020 aims to transfer the unused 2014 appropriations, or eur 21,1 billion, to the following years. the role of the european parliament is key here, as without its approval the council cannot adopt an act amending the mff. the late adoption of a large proportion of operational programmes (47%, or 300 programmes) has made it necessary to revise the mff in order to avoid further delays and losses. this is a technical amendment in nature and was supported by a large majority in parliament (591 votes in favour, against only 24 against). the conclusion drawn from the political analysis of this situation is that more speed and flexibility of procedures are needed - a matter of the utmost importance which has yet to be discussed.
in writing. ‒ mr president president, colleagues, i supported the first revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff 2014-2020) as a necessary technical change, but also as a clear political signal to citizens that the commitments made for the financing and implementation of the programmes for convergence, the common agricultural policy and regional development are being respected. the transfer of eur 21 billion of unused funds from 2014 to 2015 will allow 300 programmes already approved in different member states not to be cancelled due to the more than six-month delay in the approval of the mff and the serious delay in the approval of new operational programmes, which implies turning 2015 into a year-zero for the absorption of euro funds. i support the need for flexibility in the mff to allow for changes like today's because this is necessary to avoid interruptions and problems in the implementation of eu projects and programmes and to prevent the loss of large amounts of eu funds, as would have happened to the 21 billion euro in question without the amendment adopted today. today, as the european economy recovers from the crisis, it is more than ever necessary to make full use of the opportunities for job creation and the revival of investment, which in many member states comes mainly from the european funds. let us not allow bureaucratic procedures to choke the european programmes.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i have proposed, signed and supported this resolution for several reasons. first of all, our deepest sympathy and condolences to the heirs of those one and a half million armenians who died, victims of the armenian genocide. not only for the memory of these victims, but for all the other victims of the young turk genocide within the ottoman empire, which lasted from 1913 to 1921, in the mad, man-hating attempt of the young turk government to create a unified nation by killing all other peoples and nationalities within the borders of the ottoman empire. secondly, the present turkish state must be forced to acknowledge the historical guilt of its predecessors, condemn this act, assume political, if necessary financial responsibility and compensate the victims of armenian, bulgarian and all other nationalities. thirdly, the behaviour of the turkish political elite today is scandalous. they deny and try to dismiss all guilt. not only must genocide be recognized, but its denial must be prosecuted.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the motion for a resolution not because i deny the need for a common assessment of these events, but because i believe that the path to achieving, to implementing a common assessment could be made more difficult by the adoption of such a position by the ep. controversial historical events must not be transformed into modern political conflicts. historical debates are in the field of historical science, not in the field of politics. let's leave that to the academies of science and the universities. parliament is a highly politicized body and not the most appropriate medium for establishing historical truth. we as politicians have no right to dictate the content and direction of thought.
in writing. ‒ every bulgarian knows about the sufferings of the armenians in the ottoman empire. he knows from our native history and literature, from the stories of the representatives of the armenian communities scattered throughout bulgaria. they came as refugees to bulgaria, found their second home, preserved and passed on the memory of the massacre of the armenians because that's how we bulgarians have called their hard fate for a hundred years. and so i have no doubt that the concept of genocide, which emerged after the second world war, is fully in keeping with the facts and the depth of their tragedy. even though a hundred years have passed since those terrible events, we must show that we have not forgotten those one and a half million innocent victims. europe knows best that only through truth can peace be brought about between peoples. european citizens have shown the whole world how this is done. that is why the armenian genocide must be recognized by all european states. i am convinced that the national assembly of the republic of bulgaria will very soon follow the example of the european parliament and adopt a declaration recognising the armenian genocide. i'm proud to have been part of today's truly overwhelming majority.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution on the international roma day anti-roma sentiment in europe and eu recognition of the roma genocide commemoration day during the second world war, as i believe it lacks important points of relevance to the current situation in europe. i don't think the famous roma integration happened anywhere in europe. on the contrary, there are a number of examples of exactly how western european countries do not apply it. in addition, there is a lot of evidence of blatant misuse of funding for roma integration. there is a clear double standard between the official documents that are adopted, the programmes that are created and the behaviour of a number of member states. i also think that the linking of international roma day with so-called anti-roma sentiments is at least a bad compilation of two issues that in their genesis have little in common. i stress that our efforts should be directed not towards the creation of artificial standards and privileges based on origin, as is the spirit of the resolution in question, but towards practical solutions with measurable results. the truth is that integration of the kind that is being preached is not and will not be. after so many years of integration, the current approach has proven to be completely untenable.
mr president, tomorrow’s vote on the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system is not only the conclusion of more than six years of hard work on the issue by the european parliament. tomorrow’s vote also represents an urgent call on the commission to propose legislative measures as soon as possible to ensure that the ecall system will be mandatory in all european countries by 2018. but most importantly, tomorrow’s vote is a decisive step towards the consolidation of a system that can save human lives. it is among the best examples of how and why the european union brings value to its citizens. as with most recent developments, here too digital technologies play a key enabling role. when talking about digital technologies and interconnectedness we always talk about protecting personal data. in this respect, the report puts a special emphasis on the issue of data protection, clarifying that information will only be used at the moment of a serious accident and not for the continuous tracking of the vehicle. i would like to use this opportunity to call upon car manufacturers in all member states to make the benefits of the ecall system available for vehicles across europe.
the emergency summit following the recent tragedy in the mediterranean has not made bold decisions. some member states have given up quotas for resettling refugees, refusing to participate in rescue operations. do we have a clear picture of what is happening in the countries on the european union's external borders, which are taking in thousands of refugees every month and where resources are being depleted? the only measure adopted was an increase in funding for triton. europe cannot act as a fire brigade after every new tragedy. we need a long-term policy agreed by brussels and the 28 member states. if today's focus is on the mediterranean, tomorrow's events could test the land border between bulgaria and turkey, which is already a tricky one. over 5,000 illegal immigrants entered in the first three months of this year alone, 60% more seeking protection. it is not enough to save people, as the situation in reception centres and refugee camps borders on a humanitarian catastrophe. dublin 3 should be changed and teams with frontex should be formed for rescue operations and border protection.
i would like to thank mrs. libacka personally for her report. over the past 15 years, the bologna process has made significant progress in terms of mobility and the quality of education, but today it faces new challenges such as youth unemployment. i believe that active dialogue between the university community and business should be encouraged in order to develop curricula that equip young people with the necessary skills for a smoother transition to the labour market. another important step in this direction is the need for recognition of qualifications acquired abroad, as well as periods of study abroad, including skills acquired through informal and independent learning. last but not least, access to international mobility should not create conditions for discrimination against students with more modest financial opportunities. investing in quality education is the key to tackling youth unemployment.
i, for my part, would like to join my colleagues in congratulating mrs libacka on the balanced report. it is important to highlight the progress made in higher education to date through the reforms undertaken in the bologna process, namely the improvement of the quality of education, the improvement of mobility, the internationalisation of knowledge and a number of other achievements of the bologna process. ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, knowledge is a resource that is being depleted faster than any technology. i therefore believe that european higher education should aim to provide the highest possible level of knowledge through the continuous updating of curricula. it is essential for the sustainable integration of young people into the labour market that curricula provide opportunities to combine knowledge with vocational skills, promote the development of entrepreneurial skills, harness the potential of new technologies and digitalisation to develop a wide range of skills. dialogue between higher education institutions should be encouraged... (speech is suspended)
i can only give a positive assessment of the report on the new european union forest strategy. i fully share the general thesis of the report that we need a systematic, planned and new approach to forest management. i also want to emphasize that i fully support the view that forestry policy should be a national priority and that it is not necessary or right to introduce community regulation. i agree that on some issues that indirectly affect the forestry sector, we also need common measures at european union level investments in the forestry sector, more jobs, support for the sector that can provide more added value. but here's the thing, not everything in this sector is up to par. i'll give you a couple of examples. european money is being used to illegally clear a forest in the course of a european project in the village of banja, razlog municipality, blagoevgrad region. this is unacceptable. in addition, there is a so-called 'timber mafia' in europe, which is involved in the illegal harvesting of timber that is exported to member states or third countries. we can no longer turn a blind eye to this and other similar ugly phenomena. as regards financing, much more investment is needed, both from european funds and public funds from member states for forests.
in writing. the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable sources directive is an important element of the series of measures proposed by the commission in the fight against global climate change. i welcome the steps taken by the european commission with regard to the european union's biofuels policy and believe that so-called 'second generation' biofuels will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, protecting the environment and the health of the citizens of the european union. i think that the amendment of these directives is a good example of the transposition of political priorities into concrete measures.
in writing. i welcome the final agreement reached on the amendment of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, as it offers a realistic approach that will allow investment in renewable fuels in transport to continue. the 7% cap for first generation biofuels will allow the preservation of investments already made in these biofuels and at the same time, by introducing a benchmark, albeit non-binding, for new generation biofuels of 0,5%, will encourage investments in second generation biofuels. i'd like to remind you that some of our colleagues are not entirely consistent. seven years ago, they were pushing for the use of biofuels from food products in europe and defending the production of ethanol or biodiesel. then they criticized us for not supporting these biofuels enough, and now the opposite - they criticize us for not banning them fast enough. i was strongly against drastic measures to phase out first generation fuels, because that would have been a way of punishing those european entrepreneurs who took the initiative for biofuels and, in compliance with all european requirements, opened up businesses and invested in their production. what our investors lack most is the guarantee that there will be consistency in european legislation. the adoption of this agreement will ensure that to a large extent.
in writing. ‒ having voted on 15 april 2015 on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020, by aligning the ceilings of the mff with the present draft amending budget no 2/2015: revision of the mff for the period 2014 to 2020, the european parliament gives its consent to the amendment of the corresponding appropriations for 2014 so that the unused resources in 2014 can be transferred and used in the 2015 budget. i supported this proposal because by carrying over the 2014 appropriations to 2015, we will avoid delays in payments for many operational programmes, which would have negative consequences for regions and cities and therefore for european citizens. alongside my support, i would like to call once again on the commission to pay particular attention to the least developed regions of the european union, as provided for in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in the poorer regions, every eurocent of european investment is valued and the benefits of eu membership are most visible.
i would like to congratulate my colleagues and the council on the compromise reached and the position taken on this regulation. the european commission should promote this service even more actively, even before it becomes mandatory for only certain motor vehicles in 2018. the union should support such measures to ensure the safety of its citizens. i therefore believe that the european commission should propose in the coming months the appropriate legislative measures to facilitate the installation of the ecall system. i call for financial instruments to be provided at european level to make this service free and easily accessible to all european citizens as soon as possible. every year, more than 25 000 european citizens die on the roads. do we have to allow 380,000 more people to die before the system is expected to be fully implemented in 2033 in order for this service to be universal? and one human life lost on the road is one more than we can afford.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because it is very important that citizens have access to a public system free of charge, not only for emergencies, but also to have a much more efficient quick-connection mechanism that can save many lives. in bulgaria, we were among the first to support this initiative and adopted the entire ecall pilot system in our national legislation as early as 14/02/2014. this report will contribute not only to further improving the system, but above all to improving the balance within the eu itself so that this service is available to everyone, very soon.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable sources directive, as i believe that in view of the high energy dependence of some member states on third countries, the european union needs to review the existing legal framework in this area. i agree with the view expressed by mrs thurwalds that one of the biggest challenges in updating directive 2009/28/ec and directive 98/70/ec is the lack of a long-term perspective. if no action is taken, europe will face the serious challenge of becoming a continent that is seriously lagging behind in technology when it comes to connecting to sustainable fuels. we must make every effort to avoid such a situation.
mr president, i supported this directive because i believe that a clean environment is a prerequisite for good public health. i think that plastic bag pollution is a concern and that this problem needs a solution. at the same time, i am of the opinion that the text as it stands, with its proposal to impose additional taxes and charges in a situation of de facto economic stagnation, contains economic and social risks. such measures may seem like a quick-fix solution, but the economic and social impact is not negligible. i fear that this directive will be used as a pretext to impose disproportionately high charges on consumers, which in my view is a prerequisite for a dangerous effect - a drastic reduction in demand for this type of production, which in turn poses a danger to those working in the sector. i call on the commission and the governments of the member states to come forward with quality proposals in this regard and more ambitious measures to demonstrate the benefits of using bags made of other materials.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags because i believe, as the european commission has mentioned, that the proposal contains specific texts which are beyond the competence of a legislative body. i and my political group fully support the long-term objectives contained in the commission's proposal. however, they should be clear, consistent and enforceable to reduce the use of plastic carrier bags, and not overly restrictive - and potentially ineffective - requirements such as those set out in this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second reading final agreement on the amendment of the directive to restrict the use of plastic bags with a wall thickness of less than 0.05 mm, because i hope that it will put an end to their excessive waste and unregulated disposal in the european union. the fact is that plastic shopping bags are among the most polluting substances in the environment and they are a significant problem, especially for our aquatic ecosystem. it is estimated that over 8 billion plastic bags are thrown away each year. the new legislative measure, which is significantly improved in all respects compared to the commission's original proposal, obliges member states to ensure one of two conditions: that the average annual consumption does not exceed 90 plastic carrier bags per capita by 2019, or alternatively that they are no longer offered free of charge in the retail network by 2018. i believe that such measures have the potential to limit the negative impact of nylon envelopes on the environment and will lead to their more efficient and sustainable use. however, their successful implementation requires public acceptance, which is linked to raising awareness among citizens about the motives and nature of the changes approved today, and to promoting the use of biodegradable and compostable envelopes.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, which is a matter of great importance, especially for my country. statistics should be factual, but in fact, up to this point, they have been more often influenced by manipulation for political purposes. this undermines not only national legislation and the economic system, but also the political supremacy and legitimacy of our governments, which means the eu as a whole. we need more accurate and independent statistical authorities so that we can rely on the data that is provided to us, especially on sensitive and problematic issues such as trafficking and human trafficking and so on.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process implementation report highlights the achievements of this process over the past 15 years. examples of this are higher education structures that are becoming more comparable, student mobility is increasing and there is progress in quality assurance. the report also highlights the issue of skills gaps across europe and the need for better interaction between education and business needs. further efforts to improve mobility, mutual recognition and comparability of standards while respecting the autonomy of universities are also of paramount importance. a cooperative approach is needed on the part of member states and other stakeholders to continue the positive contribution of the bologna process to the benefit of higher education in europe. i am satisfied with the positive nature and tone of the document presented and have therefore supported it.
mr president, one of the main challenges facing the european film industry is the need to promote films more effectively and better. in comparison, in the us, this funding represents 50% of the film's budget, while in europe only 1% of all film production goes to targeted marketing. i call on the member states to make more efficient use of the european structural funds so that they can be used to their full potential to finance digitalisation, the dissemination of film heritage and film archives. building media and film literacy should be encouraged from the earliest childhood so that young people can acquire a taste for culture and the arts and stimulate their own creative development.
in writing. ‒ it is commonplace to say that in a time of crisis every investment in our production, in any sector, is absolutely necessary, but this is a fact and it is our duty to encourage it. the digital market is developing at full speed and needs to be stimulated but also well regulated. this report considers that a single reduced vat rate should be applied to cultural audiovisual works sold online and offline, but i think that the debate should be more extensive here. the commission should also be able to carry out a review of the existing rules on the protection of personal data, in particular by taking into account the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. i support the report by stressing that such an analysis is imperative. copyright is also of great importance here and the necessary remuneration for the rights holders and above all for the authors themselves must be guaranteed. this will really lead to manufacturing, which will stimulate the economy and growth.
mr president, the forestry fund is a source of timber and non-timber raw materials such as herbs, berries and mushrooms. these resources serve as raw material for the food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. sustainable harvesting and the full use of these non-timber raw materials are an opportunity to tackle acute problems such as high unemployment, depopulation and an ageing population, which are reaching critical levels especially in rural and mountain areas throughout the european union. i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to work towards a strategy for the sustainable development of this potential. i strongly believe that the european commission should also draw up a european strategy on medicinal plants which will help to find a more coordinated community and european approach to exploiting this hidden forest potential.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new eu forest strategy. i also support the main point made in the report that we urgently need a systematic, planned and new approach to forestry management. i would also like to stress that forestry policy should be a national priority and that it is not necessary and right to introduce a common european regulation. however, i agree that on some issues that indirectly affect the forestry sector, we need common measures at eu level. as such, i would identify investments in the forestry sector, creating more jobs and supporting the sector that can give us more added value.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on a new eu strategy for forests, which recognises their important social, economic and environmental role. forests are important for rural development and in this regard i encourage the recognition of the role of forestry and agroforestry in the 2014-2020 rdp. i am convinced that measures in this direction will contribute to the protection and promotion of the natural and cultural heritage as well as to sustainable (eco) tourism. the forestry sector is of major economic importance, providing over 3.5 million jobs at european level. in this context, it is important to explore the potential of this sector to create green jobs, especially in rural areas. forest biomass will play an increasingly important role as a source of renewable energy in view of the growing demand for energy. in this regard, research and innovation in the forestry sector should be promoted through european funds and programmes with a view to achieving rational use of biomass and the development of fast-growing energy crops. the data show that each euro invested in research and innovation in the field of bioeconomy and sustainable use of raw materials under horizon 2020 will generate around eur 10 in value added.
in writing. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon was a step towards stronger protection of the financial interests of the european union. with its subsequent proposals for a european public prosecutor's office and a directive to combat fraud with european funds by criminal means, the commission has put better fund management at the heart of the effective implementation of its policies. actively fighting fraud with european funds will allow more people to access eu financial support, end bad practices such as vat fraud and improve the union's image as a driver of growth and prosperity in the member states. it is therefore necessary for the council to adopt as soon as possible the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office and the directive on combating fraud involving european funds. these two files should cover the maximum number of financial crimes involving the european funds and ensure the independence of the investigations. the proposals will not lead to a conflict between the european approach and national enforcement, but will strengthen cooperation and trust between member states. the adoption of the european public prosecutor's office regulation and the anti-fraud directive on european funds will be a clear signal that the eu is willing to protect its financial interests and to ensure that funds reach those who really need them, namely european citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, the committee on transport and tourism welcomes the high implementation rate for transport and mobility and the fact that the error rate is below 2% for most of the programmes. nevertheless, we are concerned that for research the error rate remains above 2%, and that compliance with public procurement rules remains a continuing problem. furthermore, for the sake of transparency we strongly feel that the commission should publish an annual list of transport projects co-financed by the union with the exact funding amounts for each project. it is also of major importance to ensure strong synergy and cooperation between different sources of eu funding in order to avoid duplication and to guarantee their most effective and efficient use. проектът за резолюция относно освобождаването от отговорност на комисията е белязан от често крайна критичност, основана на едностранен подбор на примери и на пристрастни оценки – подход, който се оказва добре дошъл за евроскептиците. този подход е подчертан по отношение на българия и други държави от източна и южна европа. представените данни за тези държави внушават, че те допускат единствено грешки и провали в усвояването на европейските средства. целенасочено са игнорирани техните добри резултати и позиции по редица показатели, както и напредъкът в проблемни области. общите интереси на нашите граждани категорично изискват обратния – балансиран и обективен – подход. именно този подход е заложен в предложенията на социалистите и демократите. все пак не съм изцяло разочарован от г-жа гресле, тъй като тя намери за възможно да се присъедини към две от нашите важни поправки.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i am taking part in this debate today on the commission's 2013 discharge in my capacity as chair of the committee on regional development and also as rapporteur for the procedure before it. i congratulate mrs gresle as rapporteur on the precise, detailed and focused report and i would like to say that i am very pleased that some of the regi proposals have found their way into the final version of the report. the commission's focus on a culture of results is key to us results to account first and foremost for the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of cohesion policy. i am glad to see such understanding on the part of the court of auditors and the european commission. i would point out that the final measures to stop payments may have undesirable consequences.
mr president, we support the envisaged proposal for the parliament resolution on the discharge in respect of the eu agencies for 2013. in the report regarding the implementation of financial management and control, the main aspects of agencies’ functioning in 2013 are covered. talking about the agencies and their activities we should be aware that their main tasks must not be to spend a percentage of the funds but to spend in an optimal way to implement their missions and to provide added value for european citizens. based on this and the recent migration issue, i would like to draw your attention to the case of the frontex agency. the agency’s mission is to promote, coordinate and develop european border management in line with the eu charter on fundamental rights. in this regard i would like at the end of each financial year to know to what extent the agency has been effective and has contributed to the coordination and implementation of joint operation at external borders, and analysed intelligence on the situation at the external borders, providing rapid response capabilities and assisting member states in joint return operations. these issues have become more important in recent years in connection with the change in the overall eu strategy on resources and the worsened security environment and problems concerning migrants to the eu. for me, as a representative of bulgaria, one of the countries with external borders upon which there is a dramatically increased migration pressure, two main aspects are essential – growth in the agency’s budget and an improved strategy that fits distribution management. it is a relationship like this between the amount of money spent and the actual results achieved in the implementation of agenciesʼ missions that should guide the discharge at the end of the financial year.
mr. chairman, i was only eight years old when bulgaria went through one of the worst crises in its modern history. few of the government systems and mechanisms then worked, people faced challenge after challenge and problem after problem. but since then, a long way has been done, and many lessons have been learned. it's been exactly eight years since bulgaria was a member of the european union, and if i look back at the past programming period, i see results. i see some progress. and it's the results and the successes that should be the subject of our debate today, because many of the numbers are pointing in that direction. according to the european commission, bulgaria absorbs almost 75% of the agreed funds. on average, 80% are those for the union, and the bulgarian percentage is growing. the rural development programme has also been rightly criticised. but a year after that report, hundreds of people are the beneficiaries of the aid. almost seven million have been paid out to beneficiaries by the european fisheries fund alone. the control and verification systems for eu funds in the country are functioning. every report from now on will be proof of my words. last but not least, i would like to thank mrs gresle for her high level of professionalism and diligence in her work on the report.
a question asked by raising a blue card. the 30% increase in pre-financing for operational programmes aimed at promoting youth employment is undoubtedly important. but improving employment is a symbiosis between reform and investment. they cannot achieve this goal on their own. how do i see progress going? there are large differences between member states and between the use of the same means and the achievement of specific results. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this effort must be two-pronged. firstly, making the most of this pre-financing and secondly, reforming education. how do you see these reforms in your member state and in others?
mr president, as i said a moment ago, an increase of 30% in the advance payments for operational programmes to promote youth employment is undoubtedly a very important step and i welcome the commission's efforts. but i want to encourage her to do even more to raise awareness about this initiative and the programme and how young people can benefit from it. i also realise that the role of member states and local authorities is crucial to achieving sustainable employment for young people abroad. i therefore sincerely hope that member states and local authorities will also make efforts to increase their capacity and, alongside the investments they will receive from pre-financing, to implement reforms in education and make their employment services even more effective. i believe that only by accumulating all these measures can we ultimately make sure that young people from outside find better jobs faster and easier in the future.
mr president, the creation of a website where anonymous reports can be made to the committee on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or impact is a rather risky undertaking that will not produce the desired results. the arguments against this proposal are many. first, this possibility could lead to a lot of abuse and settling scores. the verification of the accuracy of the information will require efforts and competence that the european parliament does not have. secondly, in view of the negative opinion given by the legal service of the european parliament, we cannot guarantee the anonymity of the reports submitted. as meps, we do not have the same legal protection as investigative journalists have in relation to sources of information. third, the creation of 'secure clouds' could set a dangerous precedent that could be applied to other legislative committees of the european parliament. what are we gonna do then? i support the decision already taken in the committee on taxation and the position expressed by the legal service of the european parliament that such a page is not necessary.
thank you, mr chairman. the daily tragedies in the mediterranean are a test for all of us. hundreds have lost their lives at sea in the past month, trying to find refuge from the horrors of war. it is clear, as this parliament has repeatedly said, that europe needs a unified, holistic approach to migration. first, we need to step up rescue operations to avoid further casualties. secondly, it is important to share responsibility between member states. europe must find the right approach to asylum seekers, because overburdening the reception systems of several countries will only lead to a violation of asylum seekers' rights and to a failure to tackle their integration. i therefore believe that the commission and the member states must jointly take responsibility and provide for the possibility of allocating refugees on the basis of factors such as gross domestic product, population size and the number of refugees already admitted.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, it is time to act. we expect concrete proposals and a common policy. it is not enough to be alarmed by the seriousness of the situation in the mediterranean or on the bulgarian-turkish border. we do not want an ad hoc policy, but a policy which is effective, not only in the mediterranean and at the bulgarian-turkish border, but also at our external borders, in the east, because of the crisis in ukraine. we want redistribution and relocation quotas. we must be united, and that means revising the dublin regulation. we demand concrete action to break up the trafficking networks and fair sentences for these criminals. we are asking for legal immigration routes and humanitarian visas. we're asking for more help with the shelters. finally, we must give migrants a chance, because saving them is not enough. these people have to live after the rescue, too. they must be able to work and have access to health care and education.
in writing. i see a consistent practice of the eu institutions acting ex post facto in crises. we lack the foresight and the foresight before events happen. in other words, we have no readiness and no skills for preventive action and measures. we usually follow events as both thinking and acting. what is happening in the mediterranean is not of today, yesterday or 1-2-5-10 years ago. but we're just now opening our eyes and realizing that we have a great problem with illegal immigration, with human trafficking. and it's not just italy. it's the same in spain and greece. the same is true in bulgaria, whose land border is literally being stormed by migrants from the middle east and africa. i ask the question, how long will we wait? how long are we gonna pretend like this is okay? those member states are literally collapsing because all those migrants are blowing up our social systems, blowing up public order. our current policy on this issue has failed. it's time to impose strict border controls, to revise the liberal understanding that anyone who comes to europe can stay. i urge you to look at the problem from this angle. it's time to go.
in writing. mr president, in the last month we have witnessed the cruel tragedies that have unfolded in the mediterranean, turning it into europe's 'dead sea'. i fully agree with mr schulz: 'it is time to act with concrete steps! talking about a shared value system does not imply abdicating our obligation to share responsibility. schengen created common european borders, but we expect common european problems to be solved by individual countries. we need to change, we need to do more to prevent this humanitarian catastrophe. we need to work together to save lives, and we need to work together to define our border policy. it is clear that we need a european migration policy, because there is no national solution to the complex problem, but only a common european approach. the dublin regulation, with all its amendments, has proved to be a failure and we must take measures to distribute refugees proportionately and in solidarity among the member states. in addition to fighting traffickers and improving the capacity of frontex, we must not forget the efforts we must make to stabilise libya and the region.
in writing. i would like to express my disapproval of the council's further failure to create a pan-european solidarity mechanism, under which the flow of migrants should be redistributed proportionately between member states. it is not fair that some member states should act as a buffer and have to bear all the pressure without the institutional support and sympathy of the other eu member states. cooperation with regions that are sources of radicalisation is important and part of the solution, but it is not the only solution. the growing instability at europe's borders is creating national security concerns for frontline member states - particularly from southern europe. my country, bulgaria, is one of the two eu member states that have a land link to the middle east conflict regions. i therefore call for measures to strengthen the presence at the maritime borders and for adequate instruments to protect the land borders. i find it unacceptable that the council can quickly decide to impose political and economic sanctions, driven by geopolitical competition and ambition, but that on a matter which affects the security of millions of european citizens, especially in southern europe, there has been no effective solution for years.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the commission and the executive agencies because i believe that the european commission and the member states are not managing the eu-funded agricultural and regional funds and employment policies effectively enough. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which points out the lack of appropriate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the context of the recovery from the financial crisis, i believe that the commission should focus on the control and efficiency of spending.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep report on the discharge to the commission for the implementation of the 2013 eu budget, which proposes concrete measures to improve the financial management and control systems of european funds. the report notes a trend towards an increase in the rate of error in the management of european funds, with the cap and rural development areas remaining the most sensitive. it should be noted that not all errors are fraudulent and misuse of european funds, and some are due to an administrative or technical omission. therefore, when identifying errors, it is important to look for the root causes that gave rise to them, with a view to their effective correction. in this context, i welcome commissioner hogan's commitment to make simplification of the cap a top priority. achieving a less bureaucratic cap will lead to a lower error rate in the field of agriculture. in focusing on the new cap, we should not overlook the successful completion and disbursement of the old cap projects. i am confident that the commission will take the necessary action to ensure a smooth transition between the old and the new programming period by extending the eligibility period for expenditure by 6 months to allow sufficient time for beneficiaries to absorb the funds already granted.
s&ds) i welcome the decision to pre-finance operational programmes under the youth employment initiative. i believe that this action is particularly timely, as the youth unemployment rate at eu level is over 20% and the proportion of young people not in employment, education or training in the european union is over 10%. in bulgaria, this statistic is 22% or twice the european union average. one of the main challenges to the implementation of the youth guarantee at national level is the inadequate mechanisms to encourage registration at employment offices. another major problem is the lack of diversified employment policies to identify and provide the skills needed. i believe that the key to ensuring sustainable youth employment is investing in quality education and in building transversal skills such as entrepreneurship, digital literacy and critical thinking. education is the cause and solution to youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the youth employment initiative (yei) funding contains a €3.2 billion specific allocation from a specific eu budget line, combined with at least €3.2 billion from the esf allocation to member states. the commission proposal sets a higher pre-financing rate for 3.2 billion ipa specific appropriations to ensure rapid mobilisation. our young people need support and such funding is absolutely essential. bulgaria is also one of the countries that will benefit from this initiative.
in writing. - this week. i voted 'no' to the commission's proposal to increase the amount of pre-financing under the youth employment initiative to be paid this year. i am aware of the serious difficulties member states face in starting up programmes due to a lack of available funds, and i am also aware that it is the countries with the highest levels of youth unemployment that are also experiencing the greatest financial difficulties. i voted this way because i believe that tackling the problem of youth unemployment requires immediate and targeted action. the release of €1 billion to provide employment for 650 000 young people already this year will undoubtedly help member states' efforts to combat youth unemployment. these funds are intended for 20 member states with regions where youth unemployment exceeds 25%, including my home country, bulgaria. the rapid implementation of programmes funded under the youth employment initiative will help to achieve our overall objective of accelerating the transition of young people from education to employment and helping their sustainable integration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i take this opportunity to remind parliament, the commission and the council that we should carefully weigh the pros and cons of opening the european market to goods from third countries. indeed, the positive effect of such measures is felt above all for competition and consumers. on the other hand, i cannot help but point out that there are countries and economic circles which are openly abusing our rules for the sake of profit. it is noted that dumping and circumvention practices continue to exist in relation to imports from third countries. in addition to opening up the market and liberalizing import rules, it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to punish unfair practices by third parties. i would stress that too much liberalisation is also damaging to our producers, so a more balanced approach, including ad hoc or temporary sanctions mechanisms, is not without meaning. i urge the commission to pay attention to this matter.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, the council and the commission decided by interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 that the accelerated procedure could be used for the rapid adoption of codified acts. the new regulation will replace the various acts. the content of the acts codified shall be preserved in full and shall be limited to their consolidation, with only the formal amendments necessary for the codification itself. that's what my "for" is for. for the sake of transparency, this procedure goes through the ep.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement with albania entered into force by council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 24 october 2006, but has been substantially amended in recent years, which has led to the need to codify the text. this is an obligation imposed by the commission as far back as 1987, when it stipulated that all texts should be codified no later than the tenth amendment. this legislative act does not itself introduce further amendments but merely formally replaces and consolidates all the previous acts while preserving their substance. i have supported this report because i believe that the obligation to codify texts is extremely important, as it simplifies european legislation and makes it more accessible and understandable to all.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i welcome the progress that the western balkan countries continue to make in meeting the criteria for membership of the european union and i sincerely hope that we will soon be able to welcome them all to a truly united europe without borders. i call on albania to continue to work towards the democratic values at the heart of the european project, paying particular attention to respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, legislative guarantee of minority rights, gender equality and freedom of the media and speech, in line with european standards.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina entered into force by council regulation 594/2008 of 16 june 2008, but have been substantially amended in recent years, which has led to the need to codify the text. this is an obligation imposed by the commission as far back as 1987, when it stipulated that all texts should be codified no later than the tenth amendment. this legislative act does not itself introduce further amendments but merely formally replaces and consolidates all the previous acts while preserving their substance. i have supported this report because i believe that the obligation to codify texts is extremely important, as it simplifies european legislation and makes it more accessible and understandable to all.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina, adopted by a clear majority. however, it should be noted that little progress has been made in bilateral relations since the signing of the agreement in 2008. over the past year, the council has agreed on a renewed approach to bih, which is also a step in the right direction for restoring the country's integration processes. however, despite the commitment made, the lack of common political will still appears in the bih progress report as a serious obstacle. the lack of political compromise, inefficient institutions and severe social opposition mean that a serious rethinking of the way the federation itself is run is needed. the most serious problems bosnia is currently facing include the severe socio-economic damage caused by the 2014 floods and the protests in the country. during the parliamentary debate, representatives of the institutions repeatedly reaffirmed the union's commitment to the country, but did not fail to stress that bih should also make the appropriate efforts. the resumption of the integration process and the progress of bih on its path towards european accession is of key importance for the security of bulgaria as well as for the stability of the entire western balkans.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, while i supported the report on macedonia, i would like to share my concerns about its future in the context of the severe political crisis that has engulfed the country. it is disturbing that there is this sharp, extreme, even dramatic opposition between the ruling and the opposition. the revelations of abuses and crimes by members of the civil service and administration are of concern. the situation is grave and i believe that we cannot talk about any reform in macedonia unless we stop these harmful practices that we all know about. i believe that parliament, the council and the commission must insist clearly and unambiguously on the adoption of a common political plan, a national consensus and a common reform programme. if necessary, let us be the mediator for this dialogue and let the government and the opposition be invited to a tripartite format here in the ep. the future of macedonia is important to the union and we must give a clear signal of this. it should be clear to every citizen of the republic of macedonia that we offer aid in exchange for reforms. after all, macedonia's future is in the european family, but that cannot happen without some effort on the part of skopje. i urge a much more active policy on this issue, because its neglect could lead to serious social clashes in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's discharge because i think that the commission does not exercise sufficient control over the spending of european funds. it is also important to me that european funds are not wasted, but that they create more jobs and stimulate the economies of the member states and especially the less developed regions, which is extremely important for bulgaria. the use of european funds and access to them must be facilitated, but the control over and the effect of the money allocated must be more serious in order to have a real result and revival of the bulgarian economy, creation of jobs and raising the living standard of the bulgarian.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget in its section for the european parliament because i believe that the bureaucracy and the cumbersome structure of the parliament do not contribute to its better work. on the contrary, i believe that parliament needs better financial control and improved efficiency of work.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report in its section on the european council and the council, because these are the institutions that show the most rigorous control over the funds they spend.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the european external action service because i believe that the bureaucracy and cumbersome structure of the service do not contribute to the implementation of european external policies. i believe the foreign security service needs better financial control and improved operational efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european court of justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu. the reasons for this are the slow and inefficient work of the court, the difficulty of enforcing and interpreting decisions, and the insufficiently regulated use of cars for personal use.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european court of justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu. the reasons for this are the slow and inefficient work of the court of auditors. the delay in the preparation of the court's special reports is an example of a departure from the long-term objective of responding in a timely manner to problems relating to the management of european funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the european economic and social committee for the implementation of the general budget of the eu, because my view and that of my group is that these decisions should be postponed, because it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste the money of the european citizen, and to keep those in check who spend more money but do not do the job.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the committee of the regions for the implementation of the eu general budget because my view and that of my group is that these decisions should be postponed, because it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep those under control who spend more money but do not do the job.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu because my view and that of my group is that these decisions should be postponed. it is important for us to see which european structures work efficiently and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep track of those that spend more money but do not work. i believe that the european ombudsman should engage more actively with the other institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the european data protection supervisor for the implementation of the general budget of the eu because my view and that of my group is to postpone the adoption of these decisions. it is important for us to see which european structures work efficiently and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep track of those that spend more money but do not work. the european data protection supervisor should improve its system for the timely monitoring and control of the selection and award procedures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the discharge of eu agencies, their performance, financial management and control, because it highlighted the agencies' progress. the report notes that success has been achieved in tackling conflicts of interest and in making the agencies more transparent. i congratulate my colleague richard czarnecki on his good work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications because my position and the position of my group is that the bodies of the european union need to have oversight and control over the expenditure and the results they achieve. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that the services should be more tightly controlled and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, because i believe that the union maintains too large a network of translators who need to optimise their work. in order to overcome the financial crisis, we need to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, because vocational training should be a priority for the national states. in my view, such structures are inefficient and need strict control over funding.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. that is why i voted against the discharge of the european police college. each national state has its own training centre where police personnel are trained. for this reason, i consider the existence of such a college and its subsidization by the union unnecessary. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 because my position and that of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of its expenditure and its performance. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013, as i believe that this type of office is not working efficiently and does not justify the expenditure it makes. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's expenditure and increasing its efficiency, which is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 because i believe that the work of the banking authority is inefficient. furthermore, my position is that the national states should exercise control over their banking sector themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european centre for disease prevention and control because i believe that in the context of recovery from the financial crisis, the funds should be more strictly controlled and realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european chemicals agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european environment agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european fisheries control agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs supervision and control over the expenditure and results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european food safety authority because my position and the position of my group is that the european union bodies need supervision and control over the expenditure and the results they achieve. national states have their own food control authorities, which makes the existence of a european authority largely meaningless. in the context of the recovery from the financial crisis, i believe that we need to tighten controls and the funds allocated to such bodies should be really justified. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european union agency for network and information security because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european railway agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs supervision and control over the expenditure and results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european securities and markets authority because my position and the position of my group is that such bodies need supervision and control over the expenditure and results they achieve. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the context of the recovery from the financial crisis, i believe that the institutions of the european union should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be really justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice because it is my position and that of my group that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for safety and health at work because my position and that of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the euratom supply agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs supervision and control over the expenditure and results it achieves. i refer to the report by my colleague, mr giorgi pirinski, which states that there are no adequate measures to tackle fraud, and to the report by the court of auditors. in the wake of the financial crisis, i believe that agencies should be more closely monitored and the funds allocated to their existence should be realistically justified. the european union maintains an oversized and cumbersome administration that fails to deal with the problems it faces quickly and effectively. that is why i am voting against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. that is why i voted against the discharge of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. for this reason, i voted against the discharge of the european union agency for justice and home affairs (eurojust). we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. that is why i voted against the discharge of the european police office. we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. that is why i voted against the discharge of the european union agency for fundamental rights. we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, as i consider that the appropriations allocated to such an important agency are too insufficient. europe is facing enormous migratory pressure, which requires even greater efforts by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. for this reason, i voted against the discharge of the european gnss agency we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its activities and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. i believe that the company is doing an excellent job of managing european funds and can be discharged.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. for this reason, i voted against the discharge of the clean sky joint undertaking. we have a duty as representatives of the nation states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its activities and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. i believe that the company is doing an excellent job of managing european funds and can be discharged.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013, as i believe that it is of the utmost importance that the pharmaceutical industry develops and that medicines become more effective and more accessible to people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its activities and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. i believe that the company is doing an excellent job of managing european funds and can be discharged.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are of the opinion that nation states should have wider powers and therefore greater choice in policy-making. i also believe that the union's expenditure is large and needs to be regulated and controlled. for this reason, i voted against the discharge of sesar. we have a duty as representatives of sovereign states to be able to exercise control over enterprises. i see the interest of the citizens in reducing the union's costs and increasing its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the open market is one of the essential elements, one of the foundations of the union, and we should strive not only to preserve what has been achieved, but also to improve the conditions in which it exists. we were discussing mr. morten's report on competition a few months ago. agreements on imports from third countries are of course part of the big competition issue. i come back to it because the report raised a very important issue - dumping and social dumping. in the case of trade with third countries, and with those which do not share our ideas of the market, we must take account of these two phenomena. it's no secret that there are parties that abuse our rules and our trust. therefore, without hindering competition and access to the free market, it seems to me logical to consider some form of safeguard mechanism when we find that third parties are de facto taking advantage of our market by violating other of our principles. what those mechanisms are is a matter of debate, but it's worth thinking about in that direction. i think that this should not be overlooked and that the commission should also raise this issue.
in writing. ‒ i support this move as a commitment that ep funds will be used more efficiently. in particular, i support and emphasise strengthening the powers of parliamentary committees in order to increase their efficiency and their delegated powers, which play a key role in the proper functioning of the institutions, and to consider improving the overall situation to support our staff for the future. i believe the budget proposal is well balanced and can be put to the secretary-general in this form.
thank you, mr. chairman. i supported this report because as a bulgarian representative i support the creation of a strong european public prosecutor's office, especially in view of the fact that bulgaria is an external border of the european union. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the provisions of this agreement and in the implementation of the relevant provisions of the treaty on european union, in particular those relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. the european chief prosecutor shall be appointed by the european parliament and the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. i support the idea that, once appointed, the deputy prosecutors general should continue to perform their function as european prosecutors, because otherwise this would create additional procedures for the nomination and appointment of new prosecutors, which would lead to administrative burdens. i believe that the european commission should clearly define the scope and powers of the european public prosecutor's office, as well as the competences of eurojust, europol and olaf, in order to avoid legal uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ european taxpayers lose over €500 million a year as a result of misuse of european funds. in cases like this, where countries are unable to cope, it is the union's responsibility to intervene. i supported the creation of a european public prosecutor's office because i am convinced that such a structure, with an open and transparent selection of independent prosecutors, would save european citizens hundreds of millions of euros. let's not kid ourselves. this body will not replace the national prosecutor's office! the european public prosecutor's office will intervene when the state is unable to cope, and only in respect of abuses involving european funds. the creation of teams of prosecutors from different member states will ensure the independence of the investigation and prevent the concealment of abuses. the eppo will also be able to provide the necessary information to the national prosecutor's office in order to carry out the investigation. while there are concerns for a country like the uk that such a structure would reduce the effectiveness of the fight against fraud involving european funds, there is no doubt that the european public prosecutor's office would have an entirely positive effect in bulgaria. today, as europe is making a tremendous effort to boost economic growth and increase investment, tackling fraud with european funds is crucial.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. president, there is no doubt that the attack in garissa is a terrible tragedy, a terrible crime. it is a matter of the deliberate killing of people belonging to a religious community, namely the christians in kenya. it's no secret, and it's not hard to guess, that the al-shabaab fighters are targeting these very people, targeting the very christians there as revenge for kenya, for its attitude and its intervention in somalia -- in this disintegrating country. what we need to know is that radical islamists, radical religious extremists in the fragmented states of north africa are uniting in their battle and in their march against europe as it is. they deny our values, they deny our way of life, and they show it extremely graphically, they show it extremely arrogantly. that's why we don't need declarations and we don't need statements in the fight against al-shabaab. we need a targeted military operation, support for kenya and a military operation against al-shabaab.
a question asked by raising a blue card. the horn of africa region is increasingly a source of radicalisation and instability, leading to new waves of migration. do you not think that the european union should finally take concrete and practical steps to combat this growing problem instead of looking for years for strategies that satisfy everyone?
the destruction of cultural and historical heritage by the islamic state, or daesh as it is more commonly known, is an unprecedented act of terrorism that is directed against our civilization. the islamic state's behavior is meant to show us that these people don't respect not only their own but our cultural past, they don't respect our civilization, they don't respect history as it was. the islamic state is destroying these cultural treasures, destroying these priceless artifacts, because it wants to deny everything that came before it. it shows us that we and our civilization, whether it's catholic, whether it's orthodox, whether it's protestant, for them, it doesn't exist. islamic state, among other things, lives off the sale of cultural and historical heritage. it is known that more than $38 million was extracted from a single syrian province. so there must be an immediate response and it must be military. there's no other way to stop the islamic state.
thank you, madam chairman. the chairman of our committee, mrs costa, is absolutely right when she says: 'barbarism has no language and no religion.' unfortunately, in recent months, alongside the barbaric killings, we have also witnessed the unprecedented destruction of archaeological sites, statues and cultural monuments. determined to erase the region's history from the face of the earth, terrorist groups are destroying a cultural heritage that dates back more than three thousand years. these cases have rightly provoked the secretary-general of unesco, mrs bokova, to declare them a cultural cleansing and a war crime that the world must punish, and the european union must support the organization in its fight to preserve our heritage. it is imperative that we immediately confront this assault on our collective human memory, because it is not only a cultural tragedy, but also a security threat. i call on the council to set up additional units within eurojust and europol to combat the illicit trafficking of cultural property and to coordinate better with national authorities. the european union also needs to stand firmly behind unesco's 'united for heritage' campaign for global support for the protection of cultural heritage.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for a very fruitful cooperation and his balanced view on albania. in the last year albania achieved significant progress, and the report clearly recognises the country’s role in regional stability as the only one of the western balkan states that is a full nato member. albania has constructive and stable relations with its neighbours and its foreign policy is in full compliance with the eu’s foreign and defence policy. in domestic policies albania has made some progress in meeting the political criteria for eu integration. nevertheless, for the further course of reforms the government and opposition should ensure implementation of the political debate in the parliament, in order to consolidate and expand their achievements so far. as regards the economic criteria, albania has made some progress in its pursuit of the functioning market economy, but it has to accelerate structural reforms in order to cope with the competitive pressure on the common eu market. as a result of the low competitiveness of the economy, unemployment is high and the grey sector is still large. the report clearly highlights the challenges that albania is facing and some of the positive steps that the government has taken to deal with them. despite the reform of the judicial system, including the engagement of the venice commission, fundamental reform is still needed to increase the independence of the judiciary. the country has demonstrated political will to fight corruption which remains the major problem along with the organised crime that erodes statehood. there is a serious need to strengthen the de-politicisation of the state administration. on that point, we should congratulate the government on its efforts and the progress it has achieved in the reform of public administration. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that unification of albania and kosovo is only possible within the eu, because the european integration perspective remains the only viable option for all countries in the region.
thank you, madam chairman. i congratulate albania on the progress it has made over the past year, as evidenced by the granting of candidate country status to the european union. but this is again under the pretext that more progress must be made on the five key areas identified by the commission reform of public administration, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime and, last but not least, strengthening fundamental rights and freedoms before the start of genuine negotiations. i am glad that the report pays particular attention to these areas, because they are the foundation of any properly functioning legal system. from the bulgarian point of view, this report contains a highly important recommendation to albania, namely to adopt a comprehensive law on ethnic minorities, by which to overcome the existing legal gaps in line with the recommendations of the consultative committee of the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities. this is of extreme importance for bulgaria, since according to data from our state agency for bulgarians abroad, between 40 and 50 thousand citizens of bulgarian origin live in albania. only by guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens will albania show that it is ready for membership of the european union. in conclusion, i sincerely hope that the commission has learned from its mistakes and is closely monitoring the process of adopting the reforms, but above all their implementation, so that we do not witness yet another deja vu, namely that the applicant country has fulfilled all the criteria on paper, while in practice none of them are being applied.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you, madam president. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, christian dan preda, the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who contributed to the drafting of this comprehensive resolution. the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is extremely sensitive and it is not surprising that the commission has criticised the lack of substantial progress in the past year. the main reason for this is the current complex state structure, which delays the reform process. in pushing for a change in the country's constitution, we must not forget that the structure of bosnia and herzegovina was designed to reduce the risk of inter-ethnic conflict. the attitude of the state on foreign policy issues is worrying, as is its attitude to the policy of russia, ukraine and the crimean peninsula. the other thing that worries me is the insistence on a common curriculum across the country. this proposal is quite hypocritical, because on the one hand we demand that the state respect the rights of minorities, and on the other hand we allow the majority to impose its own interpretation of history on smaller communities. furthermore, it is not clear whether this general curriculum provides for the possibility for smaller communities to learn in their mother tongue. in conclusion, i would like to make it clear once again that bosnia and herzegovina is a very complex country and we must weigh very carefully all the recommendations we make in our resolutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and express our support for the report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i am particularly concerned about the introduction of the human rights clause in the autonomous trade regulation, which gives the western balkan countries preferential, unlimited and duty-free access to the european union market for certain products. the new clause provides for the possibility of suspending preferences in the event of a serious and systematic breach of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i hope that we are all united in this house in the belief that respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities are absolutely necessary to make progress in the process of joining and integrating into the european family. that is why i am pleased that, through this human rights clause, the european parliament will have another instrument with which to defend the values of the european union and to influence countries wishing to join the european union to adopt and implement the necessary reforms. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i completely agree with your opinion. yes, it is absolutely necessary to integrate not only the two but even the three nationalities on the territory of bosnia and herzegovina - the croats, the serbs in the republika srpska and the muslims who are part of the bosnian federation. so integration is absolutely necessary and that's one of the big problems - the fact that we have institutions that are represented at the level of even three countries. but i agree with you, this integration is unquestionably necessary.
in writing. it is imperative to help people with visual impairments adapt to the normal rhythm of life as much as possible. specific action in this direction is to facilitate their access to books and printed works in formats suitable for them and to works protected by intellectual property rights. to this end, it is necessary to accelerate the ratification by the european union of the marrakesh treaty, which regulates copyright exceptions for printed works intended specifically for visually impaired persons. the issue is a priority for the bulgarian government as well as for the governments of the other eu member states. i believe that efforts in this direction are therefore expected in both the political and civil sectors. these are social and humanitarian efforts. addressing the discrimination suffered by our citizens with visual impairments is of key importance both at national and european level. so i ask the european commission: what is its vision - is there already a roadmap for ratifying the marrakesh treaty, how should the eu legal framework for international treaties be changed and in what timeframe will ratification be achieved?
in writing. ‒ the alcohol strategy, which was established in 2006, has been a success and has produced positive results in terms of the development of similar strategies in the member states. after it expired in 2012, calls for its renewal were numerous. the new strategy is expected to run from 2016 to 2022. i support the position that this strategy should remain advisory in nature as it has been so far, while encouraging member states to develop national ones rather than requiring and forcing parties to take concrete measures.
in writing. ‒ in most eu member states, alcohol consumption is a serious public health problem that causes widespread socioeconomic damage. alcohol abuse is responsible for the premature deaths of some 3.3 million people worldwide each year. in addition, in 2010 in europe alone, the direct and indirect costs of alcohol abuse amounted to €155.8 billion. with today's resolution, my colleagues and i are calling on the european commission to create a new alcohol strategy for 2016-2022. it should include: collecting reliable data to monitor, improve prevention and treatment and reduce accidents caused by drunk driving. the resolution also calls on the commission to submit a proposal for mandatory disclosure of ingredients and calories on the labelling of alcoholic beverages, as well as labels containing warnings to pregnant women and drunk driving. parliament also proposed to increase measures to protect young people, for example by increasing the dissemination of information campaigns on the dangers of underage drinking and strictly enforcing the laws on the age limit for alcohol consumption.
in writing. i strongly support the call for a new eu strategy on alcohol for 2016-2022, because the lack of a vision and action plan will only exacerbate already worrying trends in our society. despite the efforts of recent years, the statistics remain shocking. the age at which not only minors but also those who are already minors systematically abuse alcohol continues to decline. the european union must take a stand and propose europe-wide measures to combat this trend. alcohol tourism is not a phenomenon due to the tradition of the destination country. this is a common problem and a solution must be sought at european union level. european schools need adequate educational programmes that not only present the implications of this critical information but also encourage healthy lifestyles. healthy lifestyle classes and more physical activity will help both in the fight against teenage alcohol consumption and the other major problem of young europeans obesity. i am firmly of the opinion that the target of information campaigns should not be only adolescents. in europe, where the proportion of the population aging is increasing, public health care starts in the foetal stage, so i strongly support the proposal for more information campaigns also among pregnant women. the harm that alcohol consumption causes to the foetus has lasting and severe consequences for the individual and for public health in general.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this joint resolution step as it is very important for us to support the proper implementation of the bangladesh sustainability pact. the obvious human rights violation must be corrected and i welcome the efforts to help by providing a control process that provides the right guidance.
in writing. i would like to express my condolences to the families of the more than 1200 workers who have died in the textile factories in bangladesh over the past two years. however, by supporting the joint resolution, i also express my strong disapproval of the policies of a number of global brands and textile chains which have for years ignored the working conditions in which their products are made. instead of discussing mechanisms such as the now well-known isds system, the european commission should put mandatory corporate social responsibility clauses in front of its partners in the international agreements it negotiates. this requirement should also apply to all european companies. i find it unacceptable that european chains with annual profits of over 1 billion euros have decided to contribute a minimal amount to the donor fund for the victims and victims in bangladesh. europe must stop pursuing this policy of pursuing only economic interests by exporting production to countries with minimal production costs. this attitude leads to the closure of textile capacities in the eu member states and increases unemployment in them. it also condemns these third countries to endless poverty and makes the european consumer an unwitting accomplice in this modern enslavement. it's time this stopped.
in writing. ‒ i am once again very concerned about the half-hearted way in which the mediterranean problem is being dealt with and viewed. we can all see that the situation is escalating and there is no sign or symptom that things are going to calm down. in africa and the middle east, we have conflicts that will unleash new and new waves of illegal immigrants. the more illegal immigrants, the more boats, the more accidents. what worries me is that the question of what to do is being answered with measures that would have been appropriate 10 or 15 years ago. now they're just a non-functional or partial solution to a general question. i therefore reiterate my call for a total revision of community legislation on migration and asylum. i also urge the countries on the front line - bulgaria, greece, italy and spain - to provide immediate financial, frontex and technical assistance. i call for, rather than endlessly chewing on measures that do not work, support to be provided within weeks to months. this is solidarity, not procrastination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on migration because it outlines the main policies of the european union and the necessary steps to be taken as soon as possible to overcome the crisis of migrants and refugees at europe's borders. in the last few years, europe, and in particular the union's external borders such as bulgaria, italy, greece and malta, has been subject to unprecedented migratory pressures and a wave of refugees. the current dublin rules have proved inadequate to the situation: only a few member states are obliged to deal with the influx of people, while most are protected by shared responsibility. however, a genuine european response to the migration crisis must be based on solidarity and mutual assistance between member states. i therefore welcome the inclusion in the ep resolution and in the council conclusions of last week of an emergency mechanism for the relocation of refugees and asylum seekers within the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. this is the first and most difficult step towards revising the dublin system. i believe that the positive experience of these measures will not only help countries like bulgaria, but also improve the lives of asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it contains some extremely important points and decisions of the european parliament. firstly, the adoption of the report introduces a so-called 'human rights clause' in the autonomous trade measures regulation, which grants the western balkan countries preferential, unlimited and duty-free access to the eu market for certain products. the new clause provides for the possibility of suspending preferences in the event of a serious and systematic breach of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. secondly, the report proposes to end the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina, as, since the accession of croatia to the eu, the country has not brought its legislation into line with european law, leading to trade imbalances and harming the eu. thirdly, the report proposes to replace the implementing acts with delegated acts giving the european parliament greater powers. this means that in the event of violations of the human rights clause, the european parliament will have the power to suspend the trade preferences of the relevant party.
in writing. ‒ what is happening in kenya is a chrismatistic example of the danger facing every christian or representative of any other religion in a region where extreme islamism is rampant. we have repeatedly raised the issue of al-shabaab and other terrorist organizations in africa. obviously, this issue is directly related to the global issue of peace in africa, and the problems of illegal immigrants. people are fleeing conflict zones. and they come here to europe, looking for a better life. al-shabaab is an organization that should not be underestimated. we should therefore regard our position and our policy, including our actions, as a key element of the internal and external security of the union. in particular, this group, along with others like it, is of course a threat to the union. a threat that must be neutralized as soon as possible. i am saying that we must make efforts to isolate such structures and, if not to completely destroy them, at least to weaken them considerably so that they do not pose a threat to europe.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution because i believe that barbaric and tendentious religious acts in kenya should not go unpunished. 148 students were killed in cold blood and nearly 80 others were injured. 148 people who were willing and prepared to work for the future of their country! it is unacceptable that the responsible kenyan authorities have failed to respond to these attacks despite the preliminary information that such an attack could take place. i strongly believe that the european commission should propose effective schemes to combat money laundering and the indirect financing of terrorist organisations, because structures such as al-shabaab are financed through such schemes. the role of the european union, especially in this part of the world which is becoming a source of increasing instability and radicalisation, must be strengthened. instability in our neighbouring regions will lead to new waves of immigration, especially to the southern eu member states, including my own country, bulgaria. for years now, the union has been unable to cope effectively with the waves of immigration. it is time for effective action, not just promises and strategies on paper.
in writing. - the islamic state is a factor in the middle east and africa that we underestimated and are now reaping the fruits of our inadequate behavior. i continue to maintain that daesh is a threat to european security. it's becoming more and more like a real country. the counteraction to this extreme islamism goes directly from limiting its financial resources to cutting off the financial flows that support this organization. the islamic state is rapidly and systematically destroying all cultural landmarks and values, all artifacts of ancient civilizations. it's no accident that on the one hand they trade in antiques, on the other they remove every sign of past civilizations. they think it's a pagan symbol. for them, everything that existed before the birth of the prophet muhammad is evil and must be destroyed. we need a swift and decisive intervention to protect the achievements of ancient civilizations from the clutches of islamists. i stress that their aim is to destroy all archaeological and historical evidence of antiquity. we can't let that happen, because it's a blow to civilization. the cultural genocide of daesh must be stopped. they are about to erase entire centuries of world history, literally destroy history. this barbarism must end. we have to intervene.
in writing. mr president,i strongly condemn the recent attack on the bardo museum in tunis and the gradual destruction and looting of the cultural and historical heritage of syria and iraq by the islamic state! i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that we must not stand by and watch the barbaric acts of terrorists who are irrevocably destroying the world's cultural heritage. as a member of the european parliament's committee on culture, i support the idea of creating a special unit for the international protection of cultural heritage. i call on the commission to take the necessary steps to stop the illicit trafficking of cultural artefacts, because as we know these funds are being used to finance the terrorist activities of isis/daesh. if we don't take concrete action now, an entire story will be erased. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the maldives is very worrying and is progressively deteriorating. the first democratically elected president, mr. mohamed nasheed, was sentenced to 13 years in prison on politically motivated terrorism charges. despite calls by the un and the eu for a fair and transparent trial, it has in no way met national and international standards of justice. on top of this, civil society organisations and human rights defenders are increasingly facing harassment, threats and attacks, including the maldives human rights commission, which was charged by the supreme court with treason and undermining the constitutional foundations for submitting a report on the human rights situation in the maldives for the purpose of the universal periodic review of the un human rights council. the european parliament resolution strongly condemns the events in the maldives and calls for an immediate end to political interference in the maldivian judicial system and for its depoliticisation. reforms are urgently needed to ensure the independence and impartiality of the maldivian judiciary in order to restore confidence in its functioning both domestically and internationally.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on albania's progress in 2014 as i believe it is comprehensive and represents very well the progress achieved, as evidenced by the granting of eu candidate status. the resolution also focuses on the five key areas identified by the commission: reform of public administration, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime, and, last but not least, strengthening fundamental rights and freedoms. i welcome the commission's intention to link the opening of the actual negotiations to progress in these areas, as they are the foundation of any properly functioning rule of law. from the bulgarian point of view, this report contains a highly important recommendation to albania, namely to adopt a comprehensive minority law to overcome the existing legal gaps in line with the recommendations of the consultative committee of the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities. this is of extreme importance for bulgaria, as according to the state agency for bulgarians abroad, there are about 40 thousand citizens of bulgarian origin living in albania. only by guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens will albania show that it is ready for eu membership.
in writing. i supported the resolution on albania because i believe that, like every country in europe, albania deserves a clear sign on its path towards european integration. however, i believe that provocative statements like that of mr. rama in early april are an obstacle to this path. the peace process in the balkans is a long and complex process and requires many compromises. such statements only constitute a greater obstacle to laying the foundations for the full integration of the entire region into european structures. at the same time, however, i would like to express my disapproval of paragraph 29 and more specifically the encouragement of the imposition of sanctions against russia. this is a geopolitical choice that europe has made, but the consequences for countries that are not fully integrated into the european single market are much more dangerous and, instead of helping the citizens of the candidate countries, they pose a threat to their prosperity and potential. in response to the sanctions imposed by albania, russia added the country to the list of banned countries - a measure that has affected ordinary farmers. they must not bear the consequences of the geopolitical decisions made in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 progress report of albania as it gives an objective assessment of what has been achieved and the need for further efforts to make progress in the five key priority areas. the government of tirana should continue on the path of reforms at a steady pace and focus on fulfilling the conditions for membership. political dialogue and the proper functioning of the institutions are an important part of the political criteria for accession and a prerequisite for the proper conduct of the negotiation process. the crucial element is constructive dialogue and consensus between the government and the opposition. i express my expectation for a fair approach to national minorities and recognition of the rights of persons of bulgarian ethnic origin. bulgaria has always expressed its consistent support for albania's european integration. in june 2014, our country approved the granting of eu candidate status to albania. the bulgarian government has proposed the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation in the field of european integration. albania should make further efforts to implement strategic balkan connectivity infrastructure projects, including the pan-european transport corridor 8. the positive role of albania as the rotating chair of the see cooperation process shows the potential for the country to become a factor of stability and a constructive partner in the western balkans region.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina in 2014, and as a shadow rapporteur i can conclude that thanks to the work of mr preda and the other shadow rapporteurs, we have been able to achieve a really moderate and comprehensive resolution that presents very well the problems facing the country. many of the country's problems stem from the complex state structure, which is the main reason the process of adopting reforms has been so slow. in pushing for a change in the country's constitution, we must not forget that the structure of bosnia and herzegovina was designed precisely to reduce the risk of inter-ethnic conflict. any change in the structure of the state must be properly coordinated with absolutely all the communities in the country, so that we do not witness another civil war in europe. as much as we may criticize bosnia and herzegovina, i personally believe that the country's path of development is towards eu membership. that is why, with our work and constructive criticism, we must give a clear signal that we welcome the country's efforts on the road to european integration.
in writing. ‒ overall, the annual report of the european investment bank (eib) shows quite a few positive features, such as the emphasis on the fact that strengthening eib financing instruments should not be a substitute for national economic policy and structural reforms in the member states, or that smes are the backbone of the european economy and should in principle be a target for investment. i also agree with the argument for greater efficiency, less regulation and more flexibility in the allocation of eib funds. however, there are some things that are touched upon in this report that i disagree with less - the eib cannot be responsible for creating a new tax policy, it is entirely a matter of national sovereignty. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ expo 2015 in milan, from 1 may to 30 october, will serve as a platform for the european union and its institutions to present their policies to combat the food crisis, promote the fight against food waste, promote healthy eating and more. i supported the motion on the subject. its scope is rather broad, aiming to show what can be achieved at expo 2015.
in writing. i supported the resolution because i believe that europe must speak with a united and strong voice in tackling the challenges of food production and redistribution and in combating food waste. we need to encourage positive initiatives to meet the challenges facing the sector. nearly 900 million people worldwide suffer from hunger or malnutrition, while nearly 1.4 billion are overweight. these statistics signal the need for clear and specific policies to address these two problems, with a common root - the lack of sufficiently clear government policies in food production and redistribution. and with the world's population projected to reach nearly 9 billion by 2050, which in turn will generate a 70% increase in the need for food supplies over the same period, the need for such policies is becoming more urgent. i believe that the european union, as a leader in upholding high standards in agriculture, should set a strong example, especially in those areas related to unfair trade practices or the circular economy. i join the call to the european commission for an ambitious international agreement to include food and food policy as measures to mitigate the effects of climate change.
in writing. ‒ boko haram is currently believed to control more than 50,000 square kilometres of northeastern nigeria. there is an escalation of violence - including the use of children as suicide bombers - threatening the security of west africa as a whole. alongside the fight against boko haram, nigeria faces numerous other challenges, including widespread corruption, poverty, and a huge gap in economic inequality. all things considered, the nigerian elections are a momentous moment in nigeria's turbulent history, as they mark the first peaceful transition of power since independence from britain in 1960. i think we should send a good signal about what's happening in nigeria, and that's why i supported the resolution.
in writing. i supported this joint resolution because i believe that the boko haram phenomenon represents a direct threat to security not only for central but also for northern africa and hence for the european union. as a result of boko haram's actions, over 3 million citizens have been affected by its actions and over 1.5 million have been forced to flee their homes. over 300,000 nigerians have fled to neighbouring countries, some risking their lives by taking migrant routes to the eu in the hope of better economic and safe living conditions. i am deeply concerned by boko haram's pledge of allegiance to the islamic state, because beyond a common ideology, i fear that there will come a moment of common action. actions that have so far been directed at the local population, among whom are a number of christians. i fear that the attacks may be redirected to european union citizens. as a supporter of the joint resolution, i also call on the european commission to investigate the financing of boko haram and to pay attention to the trade in resources and goods that could be from the areas where the organization operates.
trust in our markets has been hurt by scandals and allegations of manipulation of the metrics. this must be stopped, and confidence restored, and more transparency given to the financial system. i therefore welcome this proposal and congratulate the colleagues who worked on the report for producing a more balanced text that overcomes the problematic elements and can secure broad support. most eu member states currently do not have a regulatory framework for the production of benchmarks at national level, which allows for the creation of a harmonised european framework for criteria. the introduction of such a framework will improve the protection of consumers of financial services, enhance trust and thus also contribute to improving financial stability at national and european level. however, it is also important to look at the impact of the new rules on the financial market as a whole, for example if an initiative forces input providers to change their business models significantly and there is a risk that they will reduce the number of services offered. it is therefore important to ensure that the new rules on benchmark input providers do not hinder innovation and do not create unnecessary burdens for business. overall, i support the report, which will increase the confidence of european citizens in the european union's financial system and ensure greater transparency.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, mrs georgieva, every year the european union loses more than 10 billion euros from the illegal import of cigarettes. strong safeguards against this illegal importation must be sought, because it involves unlicensed products. for this reason, such products also pose a potential danger to the health of citizens. illegal imports also carry social risks. it presupposes unregulated employment relationships and puts workers in this grey sector at even greater risk. the nearly ten million cigarettes that are brought into my country, bulgaria, every day and for which no taxes are paid, cause disproportionately high economic damage. according to estimates by various organizations, my country loses at least 450 million leva a year from excise and vat - an amount that exceeds the total cost of monthly child benefits and is ten times more than the total cost of school transportation and free textbooks. in the interest of ending this practice, i believe that renewing agreements with the big tobacco companies will create stronger mechanisms for more socially responsible control and transparency.
mr president, commissioner, there has been a lot of criticism of the tobacco agreements in this chamber today, and it is clear that they are not perfect, but they are also necessary to protect the interests of producers and to increase control over the implementation of these agreements. bulgaria is known to be a traditional producer of tobacco and tobacco products. tobacco alone employs about 5.5% of the agricultural workforce and accounts for 13.8% of agricultural exports. it is estimated that tobacco provides jobs and income for some 35 000 farms. the sector is extremely important for a number of regions in bulgaria and is the only livelihood in some municipalities. therefore, any restrictive measures against producers and the sector would have serious negative effects. at the same time, smuggling and fake producers cause serious financial losses to bulgarian producers. i therefore support the idea that the commission should consider tightening controls on compliance with these agreements and try to stop smuggling.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, if you ask me what book i would like to have on a deserted island, i would say very simply that i would like to have my tablet with me, so that i can read all my favourite books. thanks to digitization, we can read anywhere, and more importantly, we can think about reading in new, even more pragmatic and infinite ways. it's important to do more than just read. digital technologies have changed the process of reading, and it's important that we rediscover and not lose the unique opportunity that we have thanks to digitization. part of this is, for example, easier access to cultural content, which is also enshrined in the european commission's new digital single market strategy. at the heart of the digital project are consumers and businesses. the process of change itself, of transition to the digital single market, will give a boost not only to the economy, but also to cultural diversity, to the whole european treasure and to the new education. an important step towards fulfilling our commitment is the harmonisation of vat rules for books and digital services, which will create the necessary enabling environment for both entrepreneurial mindset, public inclusion in europe and a solid sense of self-esteem for citizens of our continent. this is also the prerequisite for working for lower vat rates for both digital and printed books and publications in countries like bulgaria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak in the one-minute procedure with the clear understanding that there is only two days left before a deliberative debate on the republic of macedonia. recently, the bulgarian liberal party dps, through its chairman, expressed its position on the conflict in kumanovo. the conflict can undoubtedly be interpreted by many countries, but it should remind us most importantly that the transition from totalitarianism to democratic civil society in the balkans was marked by bloody ethnic conflicts due to nationalist ideologies that long displaced civil causes. the only country in the balkans that has managed to make a peaceful, bloodless transition was my homeland, the republic of bulgaria. thanks to its unique ethnic model the model of tolerance. ladies and gentlemen, the only way to prevent the frozen conflicts in the western balkans from being provoked into aggression is a balanced european approach. in this sense, we categorically reject jean-claude juncker's five-year refusal of enlargement, which already has a severe negative psychological effect. we should not absolutize the criterion that the parties have previously resolved all their bilateral ...... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
we all know the basic rules of the game here. when we make a promise, we have to keep it. when we declare that the public interest is clear, we must respect it. the large number of themes included in the strategy blurs its focus and creates the conditions for its failure or not being fully implemented. we must not allow ourselves to be in a situation similar to that of roaming charges - an issue which, if not resolved quickly, could lead to a failure of the whole strategy. failing to meet citizens' expectations means risking not only our own integrity, but also the european union's chance of becoming a global digital power. citizens and businesses are those who sell and buy online from different member states. they are the beneficiaries of optimised public e-services and of new models of education. to have trust, we need fast, adequate and transparent solutions for working copyright, for the sharing economy and for geo-blocking. the digital single market is a machine with many different parts a mechanism that cannot run at full speed unless each part is in working order and in sync with the others. the european commission, the european parliament and the governments of the member states must therefore work together to ensure that this mechanism works efficiently and seamlessly.
in writing. the information and communication technology (ict) sector is growing at a very fast rate, creating 120 000 new jobs a year. at the same time, there is a shortage of ict specialists in europe. i believe that the first obstacle to the realisation of a european digital single market is the need to match skills with the real needs of the labour market. in order to ensure that citizens benefit fully from the opportunities offered by interconnected electronic services, it is necessary to stimulate the development of digital skills, which significantly increases the chances of young people finding a job. statistics show that 40% of the eu workforce does not have adequate digital skills and 14% does not have any at all. the results of the digital economy and society index (desi) are also alarming. in bulgaria, for example, only 1.3% of bulgarians aged 20 to 29 have a degree in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. only 54% of them use the internet regularly and have a fixed broadband connection. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ this codification is a positive step in the ongoing process of creating more supervision in european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this recommendation as it is essential for the smooth functioning of the european integration process to combat the illegal misuse of radio and television services and the transmission of data via the internet. this is not only damaging to our economy, but it also leads to indirect harm to the safety of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on financing for development because i believe that bulgaria, as the poorest country in the union, can take advantage of the opportunities provided and raise the standard of living of its citizens. financing development would help bulgaria emerge from the severe economic crisis that has forced over 2 million bulgarians to seek asylum abroad. i believe that through the various european programmes and the financing bulgarian business can become competitive and actively participate in the european market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that the eu and its member states should retain their position as the main donor of development aid. the eu contributes almost 60% of the world's official development assistance, but the eradication of poverty and inequality can only be achieved by mobilising sufficient and appropriate means, focusing on poverty eradication, the universality of human rights and gender equality. another 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and deprivation in health, education and living standards. they are most common in conflict-affected countries, where economic growth and security depend to a large extent on the country's ability to exercise its sovereign functions to ensure the rule of law and to provide basic public services. i therefore believe that the european union should focus not only on the resources available but also on the need to create favourable conditions for private enterprise and entrepreneurship in developing countries, especially for smes, as they play a key role as a driver of job creation and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ it is a sobering fact that around 10% of patients in the eu suffer from disabilities caused by healthcare. the main reason for this is thought to be the savings imposed by the member states. according to a world bank report, the bulgarian citizen pays approximately three times more for health than normal, only 51 percent is borne by the state. ensuring a high level of human health protection is achieved at national level, through national policies, but cooperation between member states and the exchange of good practices can only be useful. bulgaria tends to use a lot of antibiotics and access to them is relatively easy. as the report points out, this leads to drug resistance and ultimately does not help, but harms. patient safety policies and programs are needed. let's put health first!
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and are important drivers of economic growth and job creation. there is a very broad consensus that 'green growth' provides a wide range of benefits. the report is trade-oriented and calls on the commission to avoid creating unnecessary red tape for smes in this area in order to be able to stimulate their funding, r & d and innovation more effectively. the acquisition and dissemination of accurate knowledge, which can only contribute to growth, also needs to be given careful consideration.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on green growth of smes, as i believe that one of the eu's main competitive advantages is the capacity of european smes to grow and innovate sustainably. the potential for green growth lies in the efficient use of resources to reduce the environmental footprint. to this end, the eu and the member states should promote measures related to energy efficiency, renewable energy, waste management and emission reduction. environmental sustainability in the activities of smes can be developed through instruments such as eco-design, the single european patent in the field of green technologies, eco-innovation in rural areas, etc. green growth of smes is directly linked to the provision of an adequate set of financial instruments and access to european funds and programmes such as cosme and horizon 2020. given that 90% of enterprises in the eu are micro-enterprises, this funding should be available to them as well as to start-up innovative companies. developing entrepreneurial skills in young people is key to the future of the green economy. the erasmus+ and erasmus for young entrepreneurs programmes offer a very good opportunity for students and young people to develop entrepreneurial skills by funding traineeships and exchanges of experience.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the current level of insecurity at the eu's borders and in its immediate neighbourhood is unprecedented since the late 1990s. with the high number of persistent and emerging security challenges, it is clear that no member state can cope alone and this requires a strengthened csdp. the union and the member states need to adapt urgently to new challenges by making effective use of existing csdp instruments and by cooperating in the field of security and defence with other international institutions, in particular the un, nato and the osce. of course, we cannot ignore the fact that the financial crisis has had a serious impact on national defence budgets, but member states need to take more responsibility for collective security and work to strengthen the european defence industry and the european defence and industrial base. more resources should be invested in defence and we should focus on those areas of crisis management where the eu can really add value. member states need to be more prepared for eu military operations. make an appropriate contribution of the resources and capabilities they possess to enhance cooperation and coordination, in particular in the areas of counter-terrorism, organised crime, cyber defence and migration.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr. chairman, according to the un, money laundering costs about 2.7% of global gdp, or about $1.6 trillion a year. the real cost is much higher, because organised crime and terrorism, which are financed by money laundering, affect the lives and destinies of millions of people around the world. the fourth legislative package of the european union on combating money laundering is therefore of the utmost importance. it will bring more transparency to an increasingly complex financial system which, without this package, would provide a multitude of opportunities for fraud. agreements reached on a central register of beneficiaries of a company, on the inclusion of tax crimes in the scope of the package, on stricter controls on financial transfers, on the obligation of intermediary payment intermediaries to cooperate with the competent authorities are important innovations in european legislation. they will allow for the clarification of the ownership of companies and more transparency in business relationships, which will lead to a strengthening of the functioning of the single market of the european union. at the same time, it will facilitate the fight against organised crime and terrorism, and more specifically the tracking of their financing, which is relevant in the current context of the terrorist threat to europe and was reaffirmed as a priority in the european security agenda presented at the end of april. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the fourth anti-money laundering package takes into account current and future threats to european security and provides adequate tools. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr president, for our economy to prosper, we need two ‘t’s in place – trust and transparency. in europe each year, the volume of laundered money reaches eur 600 billion. this is double the funds we need for the juncker plan. this is money that we could now be investing in innovation, in education and in research. with these two proposals today, we want to reverse this negative trend through improving traceability in the transfer of funds. this is how we will improve the integrity, proper functioning, reputation and stability of the financial system. the new measures on due diligence are very much needed. they will ensure a better knowledge of customers and a better understanding of the nature of their business. the creation of central registers for information on beneficial ownership will enhance transparency and improve the trust of our citizens in the financial system. data privacy of subjects on the register, though, must be respected. these are rules we cannot do without at european level. money laundering and terrorist financing cannot be tackled by individual states. together we stand strong in fighting financial fraud. this type of legislation creates trust: trust in our financial system; trust that we put our money to good use; and trust that europeans can thrive and develop in a fair environment that rewards initiative and prevents unlawful practices.
three legislative packages have been adopted so far in the fight against money laundering. unfortunately, the results are far below our expectations. crime is flexible and always one step ahead of us. something has to change. we need a new, holistic policy with binding laws and a common approach to fight corruption, organised crime and money laundering. europe must be a leader in the fight against tax havens, not turn a blind eye to them. the european commission is currently monitoring two countries - bulgaria and romania - for progress in the fight against crime, but this mechanism is exhausted and not working. commissioner malstrom's corruption report shows the enormity of the scale of corruption in all countries. we need common european legislation, the approximation of criminal standards in the member states, so that cross-border criminal networks do not take advantage of the differences and loopholes in national laws. we expect this policy to be the main part of the new security strategy by 2020.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, it is undeniable that the severe economic crisis has caused difficulties for economic operators in the member states. large corporations are struggling, small and medium-sized enterprises are in difficulty, and many citizens are facing the literal impossibility of covering even their basic expenses. it is therefore logical and entirely normal to discuss the possibility of improving and standardising insolvency proceedings. of course, we cannot ignore the fact that the legal systems of the member states regulate this procedure differently, but a common framework can nevertheless be introduced. this would be beneficial for the common market and for increasing the level of competition and would have a favourable effect. i agree with the thesis of some of my colleagues that it is right and necessary to consider the introduction of the status of 'bankruptcy of the family and the individual'. it cannot and should not be that a man should be a slave to his creditors permanently and forever. this practice has long been renounced in the member states. unfortunately, current practice shows otherwise. i therefore support the idea of community regulation of the bankruptcy of natural persons. it has its legal and, of course, its life logic. many may not like this idea, but it would certainly be fair and would benefit the citizens of the member states.
in writing. fellas, everyone deserves a second chance. this is especially true for entrepreneurs. the fear of bankruptcy in the eu must be overcome. i welcome the extension of the scope of the regulation and believe that focusing on national procedures that provide for company restructuring in the pre-bankruptcy phase and lead to the recovery of businesses, as well as giving entrepreneurs a second chance, are key to having a viable eu economy. i believe that requiring member states to publish information on cross-border insolvency cases in a publicly accessible electronic register will improve information for the creditors and courts involved and prevent the creation of parallel insolvency proceedings. the new regulation will avoid incentives for parties to transfer assets or litigation from one member state to another in order to obtain a more favourable legal position to the detriment of the insolvency creditors. it will bring more clarity to the provisions on jurisdiction to open insolvency proceedings, on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in such proceedings, on the applicable law and on the coordination of insolvency proceedings. only in this way will cross-border insolvency proceedings operate efficiently and effectively and help to achieve one of our most important priorities: promoting growth in europe.
mr president, despite the numerous calls by the european parliament in recent months to open negotiations with the council on the maternity leave directive, we are once again at an impasse today. it is high time that the council and the member states took responsibility for the apparent failure to improve the situation of women giving birth and becoming mothers in europe. i believe that now is the time for the commission to play its role as a balancer and help to achieve a compromise between the positions of the co-legislators. do you consider it normal that the european union's legislation in this area has not been changed in the last 20 years? does it respond to the social progress of our societies and can we afford to sacrifice european social standards in the name of better administrative governance? the council's position does not only compromise the safety and health of pregnant women and women who are about to give birth. the withdrawal of the directive must be seen in the context of an ageing population in europe. the demographic crisis has brought to the fore the need to stimulate fertility, which will also be neglected if we delay indefinitely the adoption of this text.
in writing. the proposal to revise the maternity leave directive has been under discussion since 2010 and has reached a deadlock in the negotiation process. the impact assessment of the proposal indicates that prolonging motherhood and strengthening the rights of women returning from motherhood will contribute to ensuring equality between women and men in terms of labour market opportunities and work-life balance. i think the proposed amendments would be a small step towards equality, given that working women continue to receive lower pay and pensions. i also believe that we cannot afford to seek to reduce the administrative burden at the expense of social justice. we cannot afford to make european women choose between work and children, especially in an ageing europe. i therefore hope that the maternity leave directive will be amended in line with the standards set by the international labour organisation of the united nations.
mr president, commissioner, your proposal is a huge step forward, particularly in terms of binding quotas of refugees for all member states. this is only the beginning and we are waiting for a specific programme to implement these measures. it is not enough to rescue and receive refugees on european soil, we must also respond to their integration into our societies to allay the fears of our citizens. however, some member states want to block the measures proposed by the commission even before this first debate. these reactions are a cause for serious concern. the council's responsibility is enormous. we can't run from problems when they're right in front of our door. we need to show solidarity. if we do not take urgent action, we risk deepening the humanitarian crisis at our external borders and giving a helping hand to smugglers. the dublin regulation should be revised to take account of the interests of all countries in europe. the commission should use all the levers to get the council to accept the urgent application of the proposed measures.
in writing. illegal immigration is a central problem for the union and there is hardly a member state where this issue is not on the agenda. i have raised the question here many times what to do with this wave of illegal immigrants. i will say again that as long as the islamic state exists, as long as al-shabaab exists, as long as the middle east and africa are shaken by conflict, this wave will not subside. that's why all the talk about quotas for illegal immigrants, and their subsequent distribution in europe, is a palliative measure. the solution to the problem is not in quotas. i think it's a mistake to introduce them. we treat the symptom, not the disease. we're talking about quotas, how we're going to allocate 20,000 people among 28 member states. and when that quota runs out? - then what? bulgaria, italy, spain, greece will suffer again. in italy alone, more than 50,000 people will enter, in bulgaria alone, 30,000 people will enter this year. what are we going to do with them? the problem must be solved by pacifying the areas from which the illegals come. every economic migrant should be sent back to his country. we're being offered a liberal model that will only redistribute the wave. no, thank you. i will not support such a policy. it's against the interests of my bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr steer's report on the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) with south africa, as it gives the council the right to conclude an additional protocol with south africa with a view to croatia's accession to the eu. the additional protocol is intended solely to make only minor technical and linguistic adaptations to the trce which are necessary with the accession of croatia to the eu. however, this protocol is necessary, in particular, to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the trsa.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the directive on money laundering for the purpose of financing international terrorism, as i believe it is of the utmost importance. the current european legislation in this area is outdated and does not comply with international standards, which currently puts us on the losing side in the fight against international terrorism. we all know very well that terrorist organizations are always one step ahead, both in the use of new technologies and in finding holes in our legislation. the main response to the threat posed by terrorist organisations is to halt or partially reduce the cash flows financing terrorist activities. it is also directly linked to money from the production and trafficking of illegal drugs, human trafficking and other activities inherent in organised crime. the link between organized crime and terrorism is straightforward. restricting financial flows to terrorist organisations and groups will lead to a reduction in terrorist activity. terrorism is international in scope and that is why we need to take decisive common action and constantly adapt the regulatory framework to be able to at least partially limit the threat posed by illegal organisations such as traffickers and terrorists.
in writing. ‒ i supported the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 on information accompanying money transfers because i believe that the european union's regulatory framework needs to be adapted to the present moment, because terrorist organisations take advantage of loopholes in our legislation. huge amounts of money are currently flowing from the union into the accounts of the terrorist organisation isil this can only be stopped or curbed by introducing stricter legislation on the information accompanying money transfers.
in writing. ‒ it is very important that we as the european parliament send a strong message to armed terrorist groups. most of their financial sources are related to mining or mineral trading activities. if we want to stop them, we have to make it impossible for them to finance themselves through these highly profitable markets. let us not forget that we are more directly affected by this problem than ever before.
in writing. ‒ in its previous mandate, the commission proposed a voluntary certification regime for european companies importing so-called 'conflict minerals'. today i supported the proposal for more ambitious measures and mandatory certification of all eu importers of 'conflict minerals' to ensure that trade in minerals does not fuel conflict and contribute to human rights abuses. i believe that mandatory certification will help to break the link between the trade in minerals and the financing of the activities of terrorist organisations in the relevant conflict zones. the concerns about the effect of the mandatory certification scheme on smes are justified, but i would remind you that parliament has called on the commission to support smes in obtaining this certification by covering their costs of the procedure through the so-called eu programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme). the adoption of the draft law in a more binding version is in itself a historic step forward, but it is important to note that the text will only be finally finalised after the conclusion of informal negotiations with the other european institutions. i am convinced that economic interest should not be put above values.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this proposal, as the commission has failed to shed any light on whether such a petition was accepted after the deadline. there have also been many important new developments regarding the commercial availability of products based on cadmium-free quantum dot technology and this delegated act needs to be reviewed and in any case legal uncertainty and illegal activity should be prevented.
in writing. ‒ the maternity leave directive does not comply with the principles of subsidiarity and in this respect i cannot support this resolution calling for its revision. the member states have the competence in this area and should have the final say and the right to regulate legislation in this respect themselves. in my country, maternity leave is paid for two years. the exchange of good practice is necessary, but european legislation is not.
in writing. i believe that the negotiations on the maternity leave directive, or rather the lack of negotiations, are an example that should not be repeated. this is a piece of legislation that was approved by this parliament five years ago to better protect mothers and pregnant women at work. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. this text thus contributes to the achievement of the major objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and contributes to equality between women and men; it promotes economic recovery in europe by improving the integration of women into the labour market and reducing the inequalities they face. and yet, this text was slowly buried and almost removed permanently. parliament has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to negotiate, but it cannot do so without the council, as a co-legislator, or without the help and political will of the european commission. we're being told to bring back a new proposal if it fails. what will be its position in the absence of an official position? a positive outcome is still possible, but for that the three institutions must play their full part.
in writing. ‒ the problem of people with settlements in the european union is not to be underestimated. bulgaria ranks among the last in the union in terms of the quality of services offered to people with such functional deficits. according to the last census in 2011, there are half a million. eurostat shows that twice as many bulgarians with disabilities as the eu average have dropped out of school prematurely. not to mention the social exclusion and poverty they have to fight. the 2011 convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a positive step and its implementation should be monitored.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,people with disabilities are among the most vulnerable groups in our society. some 80 million people in the european union have some form of disability and their integration, especially into the labour market, is one of the greatest challenges. despite all the existing programmes, initiatives and strategies at eu level, there is still much to be done in europe to achieve equal treatment and to remove the barriers that still exist for people with disabilities. the resolution adopted today is a guarantee of our commitment to place at the heart of european policies full respect for the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with a view to eliminating all forms of discrimination against them and their full participation in economic and social life. this document reflects our desire to be more involved and involved in developing targeted policies to improve the conditions for independent living, in line with the convention, as ratification by member states does not mean implementation. turning it into action is our shared responsibility - that of the european institutions and the member states. this can only be achieved through a harmonised approach and in continuous dialogue and close cooperation with organisations representing people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely necessary to support this, as this harmful disease is already causing catastrophic damage. we must actively protect our regions that are under direct threat. i'm personally very concerned about this disease and its possible spread in bulgaria. our regional products are of excellent quality, so we have to keep this situation and avoid any influx of bacteria from third countries; it has already caused enough damage.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her huge efforts on the preparation of the draft motion for a resolution and the intention to provide a suitable framework for eu-turkey relations. unfortunately, the last version has been modified and the whole philosophy of the motion has been changed. there is a disproportionate emphasis on the negative elements, without referring to the positive steps undertaken by the turkish government. such an approach could increase the euroscepticism within turkish society and threaten the positive trend of public approval for eu membership. instead of tolerating positive attitudes towards the eu within society, we could achieve a negative effect. analysis of the official visit of the delegation of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) to ankara has not been taken into consideration. there is no clearly stated position on opening chapters, especially chapters 23 and 24, which could provide the turkish government with impetus for implementation of reforms. noting that turkey plays a key role in the region, in regard to the refugees from the middle east it should be stressed that sustainment of almost two million syrian refugees costs nearly usd 6 billion, while financial and political support from the international community is very limited. turkey has a strategic role as a partner of the eu and a member of nato and its geopolitical importance in addressing security and stability in the region is crucial. the cooperation between the eu and turkey is of mutual interest, so we need each other in order to overcome the security challenges more than ever.
madam president, i am deeply convinced that the european union must continue to actively support anyone in turkey who wants democracy and pro-european integration in the country. it is strategically important for us to have a reliable ally, neighbor and partner in the republic of turkey. regional and global challenges underline the clear need to strengthen cooperation on priority issues such as energy security and diversification of supply, stability in the middle east and tackling irregular migration, which is particularly relevant in the context of the discussion of a new eu solidarity migration policy. the eu accession negotiation process for turkey has been open-ended from the outset, but it represents a strong impetus for reform and democratic processes in the country and an opportunity to realise the full potential of our strategic partnership. i welcome the resumption of active dialogue in recent months, which is vital to building mutual trust and which i hope will give a new impetus to reforms in the country. overcoming the critical moments in key areas such as respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law, and resolving the problems with neighbours, which are the values on which the european union is founded, are conditions without which the process of european integration cannot continue. the ratification and entry into force of the readmission agreement is a step in the right direction, but it is important to ensure its full and effective application. bulgaria and turkey share a land border which is also an external border of the european union. we attach particular importance to full cooperation with the turkish authorities in strengthening border security, combating trafficking in persons and goods, energy infrastructure and the economy. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. how would you comment, colleague, on the increasingly authoritarian attitude and behaviour of prime minister davutoglu and president erdogan, who are moving in a very islamist direction and in this sense do you not think that with their policy they are moving turkey away from the european union and turkey is moving in its own direction, especially in the context of both the turkish stream and the flooding of bulgaria with illegal immigrants?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. that is why i said at the beginning that it is in our interest to actively support those circles in turkey who want pro-european integration and want democracy. what we are seeing, unfortunately, is an undemocratic development of the country and of course a moving away of the country from, shall we say, the european corridor, because let alone full membership of the european union. the negotiations themselves have been open-ended since the very beginning of the negotiation process, when it was decided in luxembourg to open negotiations with the republic of turkey. at the end of this negotiation process, if it comes to that, then it will be decided what it is about - full membership, some kind of partnership or what the current status quo is with the customs union. so our desire, in my opinion, and my desire is to motivate those forces in turkey who want democracy, who want respect for human rights, of all minorities, religious, ethnic and so on, and this is in the interest of the european union.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr andrulakis, i come from the balkans and the only way to avoid provoking the old layers of history that remain in the balkans is for the countries to get their european perspective. in this context, do you not consider it necessary that cyprus and the republic of turkey could solve their problems by being part of the european union?
madam president, i do not share the enthusiasm of some in this chamber for turkey's so-called progress. the turkish authorities today can be characterized as authoritarian, totalitarian and undemocratic, and all this is far from the so-called european values that are much talked about in this chamber. in foreign policy, this undemocratic approach is expressed in the continued support for the islamic state financial, military and logistical; the continued occupation of cyprus; the continued provocations against the state of israel; and the continued trafficking of migrants against greece and bulgaria, which threatens their economy and national security. the unacceptable interference of the turkish government in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state of the european union, such as bulgaria, also continues. domestically, we have a growing lack of freedom of speech, a trampling on the rights of journalists, a lack of justice and a judicial system; we also have a blatant trampling on religious freedoms. just to remind everyone in this room who is otherwise democratic and tolerant that in turkey, you can't ring the bell. this turkey, today's turkey is not a european country and whoever didn't understand this will pay for it later.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for this debate at such a timely moment. i agree with most of the concerns you have raised on our partnership, but this partnership has many aspects and facets, some more controversial than others. we should bear in mind the substantial positive developments that this country and its people have seen, as well as the constructive and critical role in the region and beyond that ethiopia plays. our aim is to continue to engage with ethiopia while strengthening our messages on democratisation, on human rights, on fundamental freedoms. after the heat of the elections we will certainly further deepen our engagement with the authorities on the long-term democratisation of the country. if ethiopia wants to maintain stability and to achieve middle income status by 2025, it is essential that the population is provided with the opportunity to openly express its views. federica mogherini, the high representative, intends to visit ethiopia some time soon to see the situation for herself and to personally discuss issues of concern with the country’s leadership. this is the situation. thank you for your attention and for this very rich debate.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, thank you for this opportunity to make a statement on behalf of vice-president federica mogherini on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is very fluid. you are all familiar with the tragic events in kumanovo in the north of the country close to kosovo and serbia. we have expressed our condolences to the families and friends of those killed and injured. we understand that these events were predominantly criminally and not inter-ethnically motivated. the commission therefore welcomes the fact that all parties, exceptionally, came together in a multi-ethnic way to condemn the activities. one of the parties also played an important role in helping to negotiate a solution without further bloodshed. let me now turn to the long-term political crisis from which those events cannot be a distraction. in response to the eu’s and others’ calls for political accountability for what is being revealed in the wiretaps, which the opposition are making public, we note the resignation last week of two ministers and the head of state security. we have already said that this is a concrete step towards political accountability and that we hope that this development will contribute to restoring faith in state institutions. in this context we have also followed the two sets of demonstrations that were held in skopje on sunday and monday. it is important that people were able to freely express their views on both occasions. this was done in a peaceful manner. a calm and appropriate handling from all sides will remain important. from the outset of the political crisis, the european union has called for the restoration of normal political dialogue between the main government and opposition parties. i welcome that three of your colleagues responded to my colleague johannes hahn’s proposal to facilitate dialogue between these two parties. as you will be aware, three distinguished members of this parliament, mr vajgl, mr howitt and mr kukan, together with commissioner hahn, met here in strasbourg yesterday and in the early morning hours of today with the prime minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, mr gruevski and the leader of the opposition, mr zaev. this was an important meeting. it is clear that both sides are taking these facilitation efforts very seriously. in-depth discussions on divergent viewpoints took place and further dialogue will be needed. the commission commends the confirmation of the commitment of the parties to the eu integration process and democratic principles as well as their agreement to put the interests of the country first. we urge all sides to continue their engagement in this spirit; we welcome in this respect their readiness to meet again under the umbrella of this facilitation effort. also, we welcome the fact that the four main party leaders met in skopje on 14 and 18 may and that they have agreed to meet again on 26 may in an attempt to find a way forward, because the citizens of this country deserve better than a political stalemate. a stalemate that drags on simply does not respond to the aspirations of the population. we call on the leaders of the country to take their responsibilities seriously and put the interests of the state above those of their parties. in parallel, the european union has been calling on the relevant authorities to investigate all allegations of potential wrongdoing, including those being made public in the wiretaps, in a transparent and independent manner. the commission has also sent a team of senior legal experts to look into some of the systemic issues on which the commission had previously expressed concern. arising from the wiretaps, these systemic issues need to be addressed to get this candidate country back on the right track as it deserves. in conclusion: our collective approach to this crisis is a good example of how various eu institutions and services can work together using our various tools to deliver a clear european message. in all of this, we are also working very closely with our international partners on the ground to improve the situation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of all the employees of the ministry of the interior who died during the police operation. secondly, i declare my unwavering support for the territorial integrity and independence and sovereignty of our brotherly state. there is no doubt that this country is currently in one of its most severe political crises. the government in skopje owes a lot of answers, answers to the corruption charges, answers to the recordings that leaked into the public space and show an undemocratic way of governance. so the local government owes an explanation to its constituents, to its citizens. on the other hand, i fully support the integration of the state into the european union and nato, but this is only possible through a treaty of good neighbourliness, this is only possible through the categorical rejection of hate speech, the theft of common history, its abuse, the recognition of all the rights and legitimate interests of more than at least ninety thousand macedonian citizens with bulgarian national consciousness. total support on the basis of friendship and good neighbourliness. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague, as i understand the matter, yes, i believe that in fulfilling the european criteria and in preserving the rights and legitimate interests of all its citizens, this is the only way this country can preserve its territorial integrity in respecting the european criteria and in preserving the rights and legitimate interests of all its citizens and in achieving a good neighbourly agreement with all its neighbours.
mr. chairman, as the representative of the republic of bulgaria, i am deeply concerned by attempts to present the fragile ethnic peace in the region as hostage to narrow-minded interests. even russian foreign minister lavrov today intervened and talked about how bulgaria and albania want to divide macedonia. it's all nonsense and speculation, of course. the deliberate shifting of attention from the serious internal problems in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to ethnic confrontation on a regional basis could shift the focus and have serious long-term consequences in the balkan region. the only way for burm is to respect the european union roadmap, one of the chapters being minority rights. the rights of the bulgarian minority in macedonia are not respected, unlike the rights of other minorities. condolences for the murdered macedonian policemen, but the lives and property of 100,000 bulgarian citizens and european citizens are at stake in an application for membership of the european union. how can macedonia join the european union if the country does not respect the rights of european citizens? (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for the question, i am only referring to macedonia's negotiations with the european union. i am a bulgarian citizen and a european parliament member, but three-quarters of my relatives were also born in macedonia - in greek, in bulgarian and in macedonian macedonia. let us not put our personal biases and our personal past on the fate of a country that must be preserved as a whole. i just want to say that macedonia is obliged to respect the rights of all citizens, including the bulgarian minority in macedonia.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you not understand that this is not a dispute between the epp, the greens, the left and so on? this is a question of the territorial integrity and security of a balkan state, and those of us from the balkans know what that means. this is about ethnic confrontation, possible and dangerous, this is about human rights violations, this is about corruption. i don't think the issue is left-right, but the security of the entire region.
mr president, there used to be times when macedonia was among the forerunners for eu accession in the western balkans. however, today we are facing a very deep political crisis and we should be aware that it is not just a momentous situation; it is about very fundamental issues which are enshrined in the european idea. we should ask ourselves how we got here and how the european union underestimated what was going on in the republic of macedonia for such a long time as a way of government, establishing quite an authoritarian regime which is subduing the media and the economy and putting pressure on the judiciary. this is a very serious problem. i was there on sunday at the civil rally which gathered in skopje. i was not there to teach or preach; i was there to listen, and i saw people of different ethnic origins, of different political affiliations and people from ngos and from the media. they were standing together for democratic values. as one of the speakers from the students’ movement said, it is not about power, but about how the state will be functioning, and this should not be repeated. this is what we have to take into consideration in our attitude towards the situation in macedonia, because the crisis is deep and the eu has responsibility.
mr. president, i would like to mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the leader of the bulgarian liberal party movement for rights and freedoms, mr. lutvi mestan, wrote a letter to all liberal leaders in europe at the beginning of the year, saying that it is time for the european union to open the doors to the western balkans. the situation in macedonia proves the wisdom of this thesis and provokes us to insist on a proactive union policy for its speedier integration as a guarantee for the preservation of its territorial integrity and peace within it. the leadership of the state must make efforts to resolve the political crisis and macedonia should move quickly towards european values and standards, towards guaranteeing the rights and freedoms, including those of the bulgarian community. a good example is the bulgarian ethnic model, which ensured a peaceful transition from totalitarianism to democracy in our country. i hope that macedonia and the european union will meet on the field of democracy and respect for the rights of all citizens.
mr. president, the political elite in macedonia must make every effort to find a solution to the current crisis and not seek confrontation and conflict, both domestically and externally. unfortunately, in the last nine years, prime minister gruevski has pushed the country further away from its european path, which we here have always supported and will continue to support. but we did not see the will to improve democratic practices and guarantee equality for all citizens, regardless of their national identity. on the contrary, the country's relations with its neighbours deteriorated as a result of the unwillingness to accept the outstretched hand and to put behind it the vicious practices of the totalitarian communist yugoslav past such as the manipulation of historical facts at the expense of the aggressive imposition of a newly formed macedonian identity. the european union has an interest in a stable and democratic macedonia, in which freedom of the media and the separation of powers are guaranteed and the individual and collective rights and freedoms of macedonian citizens are respected. the question remains of the country's geopolitical choice. macedonia does not support sanctions against the russian federation, lavrov recently took the liberty of saying that macedonia is a victim of the west and bulgaria and albania want to share it, it remains unclear macedonia's attitude towards the crisis in ukraine. macedonian citizens deserve a transparent and accountable government that ensures rapid admission to the european union and it is unacceptable to become hostages of the political survival of one or another party leader who tries to personify the country! (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. of course, colleagues, responsibility is always a two-way street, and solidarity - the hand that is extended - must be accepted by the other side. but since it became an independent country in the last 25 years or so, macedonia has not been able to create such a climate with its neighbours, and to prove now on the european stage that it really wants good neighbourliness, because the imposition, i said in my statement, of an identity that does not correspond to historical truth there is no evidence in history for such cannot but give rise to conflicts in the present. present and future, depending on past assessments is not good, that's why we have addressed to macedonia repeatedly in our progress reports these recommendations, which are selectively read in skopje.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem in macedonia is not just a problem of the state of macedonia. this is a problem of the balkans, and not least of the european union itself. the long-term forced isolation of macedonia is one of the main reasons for its current crisis. we should not absolutize the criterion that the parties have previously resolved all their bilateral issues. absolutizing means telling all the balkan countries that their membership in the european union is impossible. so, mr president, i would like to say that there are issues in the balkans that can be resolved not before but with membership of the european union itself. the integration of the western balkans is not because of their political elites, it's not even because of their prime ministers, but because of the civil societies of these young democracies. the european union must not allow the western balkans to stand in the seemingly neutral field between east and west. last but not least, the integration of the western balkans is the most reliable prevention against the radicalisation of these young societies. that is why we, the bulgarian liberals, will prepare a meeting in september to discuss a new integration strategy for all the countries in the region.
in writing. during today's meeting in strasbourg, we discussed the situation in the republic of macedonia with our colleagues from the european parliament. the protests and riots that erupted there a few days ago are also the reason for the presence in the european parliament of the macedonian prime minister nikola gruevski and the leader of the opposition zoran zaev. the most important and positive news is that when there is a crisis in macedonia, the european union is the mediator. it is also very important that despite their differences, both politicians clearly define the country's eu membership as a priority. the conclusions of this and previous hearings are that this problem is not new and is quite serious. in order to prevent the deepening of the crisis in the country, macedonia needs to be integrated more quickly. without the start of eu membership negotiations, the country's democracy will be in danger. it should also be noted that the most irritated by the whole situation is russia. it is once again trying to interfere in the politics of a balkan country that shares the values of a united europe, wants to be a member of the european union and is seeking to develop democratically.
madam president, the question under discussion is really one: what is the council's attitude to the implementation of the youth guarantee, which has been so much hyped for several years now? the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter, but it is not yet possible to conclude that the council has not taken a decision on the matter. will the council undertake to present an assessment of the implementation of this guarantee six months after it enters into force under the amended regulation and what will the council do if this guarantee is clearly not working? these are the questions we want answered, it is the duty of the council, at each of its meetings as the ministers for labour and social affairs, to put the question of how the guarantee is being implemented first.
madam chair, i will use my 60 seconds today not to point out the problems, but to propose solutions. if we are going to deal with youth issues, we better do it with a youth approach and in the language of the youth. experience has taught us that it doesn't matter how much money we spend on employment, what matters in the end is how many young people find jobs. let's take a step forward, let's move from subsidized employment to fostering youth entrepreneurship, let's awaken the entrepreneurial spirit in every young person out there, let's make the employees in the employment offices not just clerks, let's take off their ties and go out in the field to those who need them. let's use smartphones to fight youth unemployment, let's have employment agencies have apps so they can be close to young people. last but not least, young people hate queues, they hate standing in line at the counter, they hate red tape and paperwork. let's get rid of this bureaucracy, let's give the young a chance and they will turn europe upside down.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, efforts to overcome the problem of the alarmingly high levels of youth unemployment must be global, targeted, oriented towards effective action. i appreciate the actions taken so far to increase youth employment, in particular the youth employment initiative, but despite the efforts made in this direction, as of february 2015, nearly 5 million young people were unemployed in the european union. recognising the serious difficulties member states face in launching operational programmes, i was among those members of the european parliament who supported the european commission's proposal to increase the amount of their pre-financing. i know that simply providing additional funds will not solve the problem. i would therefore like to ask the council: what action do you intend to take with regard to the use of the so-called funds and how do you intend to adequately report on the results achieved?
madam president, although more than a year has passed since the implementation of the youth employment initiative, the results at local level are far from what was expected. i believe that we must not only make effective use of the financial instruments available, but also embark on the much-needed educational reforms. the lasting solution to this problem is through educational changes that offer diverse forms of informal learning, emphasise practical experience and stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit and innovative thinking of young people. last but not least, i believe that youth employment schemes should be adapted to the specific problems of the member states. in bulgaria, for example, one of the most serious challenges continues to be the difficult transition from school to employment. in addition, in the context of the demographic crisis, the emigration of highly qualified professionals continues to increase in my country. the council must not only ensure that the programme is implemented swiftly and efficiently, but also be aware of the problems and difficulties faced by the member states and take action.
in writing. we in the epp see europe as the project of the working people. because only genuine employment can lead to the other things we are striving for - social inclusion, political engagement and professional activity. however, the future of europe as a workers' project is under serious threat, given statistics that show that 15.4% of young people in europe between the ages of 15 and 29 are out of work or education. in the face of the risk that in some countries we will have a lost future generation that may fall off the social network, the commission and the ep have approved funding under the youth employment initiative of €1 billion for 2015 alone. i come from a country where the proportion of people who are not employed by education, retraining or work is one of the highest in europe. i would therefore like to point out that this decision is particularly important and that it frees up the national governments to use this fund. i hope they all spend these funds wisely, with a clear plan and look for real effect. after a year, we all have to give an account of what we've accomplished. to make sure that in 20 years, there will be someone to drive europe's economy.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been working towards a single energy market for two decades. three energy legislative packages have been adopted, but we are still far from this market because member states have almost complete sovereignty in energy policy. the single energy market is not possible without free cross-border flows of energy subject to regulatory rules common to all member states. a strong pan-european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is therefore needed, with the necessary human and administrative resources to manage the single market and to ensure that the rules for the functioning of the energy market are uniform across the countries. the acer has responsibilities not only to ensure the regulatory completion of the internal energy market with the relevant rules and regulations in cross-border energy exchanges, but also to coordinate the activities of national regulators in this regard. the new european energy union, which was launched with a strong political drive to achieve greater energy security, requires significantly greater coordination and cooperation between member states for the interconnection of energy systems and for open and free energy trade between them. only then will we have competition, lower prices for consumers and security of supply for all. i therefore support the extension of the mandate of the aser expert panel.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that defence policy should remain a matter of national sovereignty. i agree with several of the points made in the report, namely that the economic crisis has led to a serious reduction in defence budgets. this threatens the union's strategic autonomy and creates a lack of military capability in its member states, which forces us to rely increasingly on others. the very idea of a common army worries me because i believe that the union should help to develop the military capabilities of each member state, not to take away what little sovereignty it has. it is not the union but each member state that needs a strong and autonomous army, because it is the guarantor of the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity and an instrument for defending national interests.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy adopted by a minimal majority. the unprecedented level of instability at the eu's borders requires the union and its member states to take greater responsibility for ensuring their security and defence. at present, the eu does not have the resources to respond effectively to the growing security threats, not only at european level but also at global level. it cannot be ignored that at the level of operations conducted under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), structural deficits and a long and inflexible decision-making process are at the forefront. as regards union capabilities, unfortunately, minimal progress is reported on the pooling and sharing of capabilities projects. the potential of member states to use the cfsp tools more effectively, to improve coordination between internal and external security measures and to work towards progress in the area of pooling and sharing capabilities is undeniable. this is why they must play an active role in taking concrete action, because the international context itself now requires flexibility and readiness to act not only in the region but also on the global stage.
in writing. i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy because i believe that defence and national security are a priority for the member states, not a general priority for the union. at a time when we are surrounded by conflicts - in the southeast, the islamic state and the looming conflict between iran and saudi arabia; in the south of europe, in north africa, we have disintegrated states, numerous terrorist groups and an influx of refugees; and in the north-east, the military conflict in ukraine - we must pursue a more secure and responsible policy. i believe that national security is a national state's priority and that it must decide for itself how much and how it will use it to ensure its national integrity and sovereignty. my view is that the osce should not overlap its functions with those of nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the impact of changes in european defence markets on europe's security and defence capabilities because i believe that defence and national security are a priority for member states, not a general priority for the union. at a time when we are surrounded by conflicts, in the southeast by the islamic state and the looming conflict between iran and saudi arabia, in the south of europe in north africa we have disintegrated states, numerous terrorist groups and an influx of refugees, and in the northeast by the military conflict on the territory of ukraine, we must conduct an increasingly serious and more responsible policy on defence and national security.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate rapporteur marc tarabella on the report and the compromises that were made in it. i would like to call on member states to pay attention to the fact that the problem of obesity is becoming more acute in europe. finding answers to this problem does not simply lie in increasing medical costs; it requires educational measures that explain to students the benefits of a healthy lifestyle. it is vital that growing organisms consume quality products, because this is an investment in the health of future european citizens. i would like to draw particular attention to the use of organic products under the new common scheme for the supply of agricultural products in educational establishments. these products have a 40% higher dry matter content and have characteristics closest to the natural qualities of the products. i call on the member states of the european union to ensure that the necessary information on the quality of organic and local products reaches the widest possible range of growers.
in writing.– i welcome the commission’s new aid scheme. the original idea of ensuring access for children to natural products must be enhanced. the number of educational establishments and students benefiting from the scheme should be increased. this can be achieved if the member states increase their commitment in the implementation of the scheme. there are over 22 million children in the european union with excessive weight and almost 5 million with obesity problems. in bulgaria alone the share of pupils with obesity problems has increased from less than 10 % in 1998 to 21% among boys and 15% among girls in 2011. the existing ‘school milk’ and ‘school fruit’ schemes have been a step in the right direction. in my country children aged 7-10 consume on average only 40% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. 89% of parents of children that have been benefiting from the scheme explicitly state their desire for it to be continued.
in writing. with today's decision, the european parliament is sending a clear signal to the council that it supports the adoption of the school schemes regulation as soon as possible in order to reduce the administrative burden of implementing them and make them more effective. the adoption of uniform rules for both schemes and the abolition of the co-financing requirement will lead to a fairer distribution of funds between member states and will increase the interest in the 'school milk' scheme. we are calling for an increase of €20 million in the annual school milk budget as an additional measure to support the dairy sector, local and small dairy farmers who are most affected by the loss of milk quotas. i welcome the extension of the range of school products with honey, yogurt and cheese, which are traditional for our country and have a proven positive effect on children's health. in addition to contributing to a healthy and balanced diet, the inclusion of these products in the daily menu of young people will increase their knowledge of the origin of food and stimulate local and organic producers by providing a market for their products. that is why i support the participation of producer organisations in school schemes as a means of stimulating short supply chains and children's access to higher quality and seasonal fruit and vegetables.
madam president, we have recently witnessed a serious and disturbing trend. the speed at which new applications appear on our mobile devices is inversely proportional to the speed at which the european union adopts legislation on many important issues. once again, a key dossier such as the network and information security directive is delayed in council discussions, even though the european parliament adopted its first opinion on it during its previous mandate. in brussels and beyond, everyone knows that the digital economy is a priority for both the european commission and the parliament. the benefits of the digital single market, however, are rendered meaningless in the context of an insecure online space. there's one topic that comes before economics and growth. this is the issue of our security - an issue on which we need to work together more than ever and be concrete and decisive. the new legislation on network security will raise the level of protection on the internet, in particular by strengthening cooperation between individual eu member states. we cannot afford to be the target of attacks, whether online or offline. our security is a global issue that does not concern the citizens, businesses and institutions of just one country. the security of europe depends on all of us and is only possible if we combine our efforts in this area in a targeted way. for this reason, the speed with which we make decisions and operate is of great importance. it's even more important to think preemptively, to prevent future instances of cyber espionage, attacks against cyber domains and possible cyber wars. it's the only way we're going to protect our citizens, our businesses, and our communities.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the french journalists of tv 5 monde. the cyber attack on a french tv channel on 8 april highlighted our vulnerability to high-tech cybercrime and the growing potential threats to european media. like the charlie hebdo terrorist attack in january of this year, the cyberattack on a major international media outlet by the islamic state is actually an assault on the foundations of our democratic societies. this is a deliberate attack on freedom of expression, democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights. all values that are at the heart of the european project. immediate and coordinated action by member states is needed to ensure effective protection against isil cyber terrorism. the new european security programme is a step in this direction. but that's not enough. it is necessary to ensure the full implementation of existing legislation at national level. i believe that the creation of adequate cybersecurity policies should also be a priority in the european counter-terrorism strategy.
the new digital single market strategy has been met with mixed feelings. one of the controversial points in it is the way vat is levied. i think the one-stop-shop option will really help reduce the administrative burden and make it easier for businesses. the situation is far more complicated when it comes to vat on books. the gaps in european legislation are most visible here, as evidenced by the recent ruling of the court of justice of the european union on the application of a reduced vat rate to e-books in france and luxembourg. i consider this discrimination to be unacceptable and unjustified and call on the commission to review the overall legislative framework as soon as possible. my country, for example, is one of the few that doesn't take advantage of the opportunity to reduce the tax on books. at present, it is 20% and one of the highest in europe. i believe that the european union should be a model and a corrective for ensuring easy access to culture for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ more than 22 million children in the eu are overweight, according to the latest figures, while the consumption of fruit and vegetables among adolescents is declining. in other words, the problem of obesity is becoming more and more widespread. that's not a statistic you can just walk away from. i believe that the diet of our children should be a priority, because nutrition has a powerful role in fighting certain diseases. the key point here is that the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments should be motivating for member states and should have less administrative burden. we need to use schools to act responsibly and instill good eating habits in our youngest citizens. we must not forget that this is an investment in the health of future generations. the other big benefit of this scheme is that it gives an introduction to farming, so the youngsters will understand where the products they consume come from and will get to know the supply chain, which is educational. i believe that this scheme is a way of giving the eu a priority and i support it.
mr president, implementing the requirements set out in the regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes is an important element in the process of drawing up the 2016 eu budget. according to the regulations, in order to support the agricultural sector in case of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution, the reserve for crises which is proposed by the commission to be included in the 2016 draft budget is eur 441.6 million. the percentage of the financial discipline adjustment rate – approximately 1.39%, which we hope is calculated correctly – is based on the presumption that it will be applied only to the amount of direct payments for farmers which exceed eur 2 000 and does not include three member states. in this regard, the financial discipline adjustment rate means less money for the farmers and, in this context, it will be a good step to do the maximum for the simplification of the application forms for small farmers. the above-mentioned sum will be included in the 2016 draft budget, with the budget heading ‘reserve for crises’. regarding the correct implementation of the requirements, we support the report for fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments in respect of the 2015 calendar.
thank you, madam chairman, i want to congratulate maria noehn on a job well done. for the first time in a long time, we have a clear and unambiguous document, with a bold vision for policy, with bold decisions that we must defend this week with our vote. but in this debate, we have to be honest enough. there is very little progress in the area of equality between women and men. good strategies and proposals are declarative, we wear them like a beautiful brooch on the lapel, but we don't implement them. we can't convince anyone of our concern as long as the maternity directive continues to travel between institutions. we can't convince anyone, while one in three women has been the victim of violence, and we continue to argue about which year to dedicate to fighting violence. we can't convince anyone while women are getting much lower wages, much lower pensions, much fewer in the workforce. no strategy will work as long as we close our eyes to the fact that more and more women are working in the black economy, without contracts and basic protection. no one will believe us if we talk about sovereignty and subsidiarity, when in fact we deny women rights. today, efforts are focused on rescue operations for thousands of refugees at the european union's external borders. but there have been reports of the exploitation of thousands of refugee women who work for meager wages to save their families. there have also been reports of secondary trafficking of women and girls already on european territory. if we don't make adequate decisions today, tomorrow will be too late. the feminization of poverty is the definitive history of the work of both the european institutions and the member states. and that is why it is important to support the report on noah's ark as a good starting point for bold decisions.
thank you, madam president, the latest proposal of the european commission for the distribution of illegal migrants in other eu member states is scandalous and it directly affects and threatens the interests of bulgaria. bulgaria has accepted and granted status to 2.5 times more illegal migrants than italy and 2.7 times more than greece in the past year, and the current new proposal to redistribute new migrants is unfair, unsolidarist and contrary to the national interest. the state can't afford to take in any more illegal immigrants. the treaty on european union, article 73, should also be invoked in this case and this burden should be borne in solidarity between the member states, because to do otherwise would be unfair and would mean a vicious and non-solidarity solution to this question. i urge the european commission to reconsider its proposal and declare bulgaria a state of emergency.
thank you, mr president, intellectual property has never been more crucial than it has been in recent years, not only in terms of innovation and technological progress, but also in terms of the overall increase in digital awareness among consumers. however, there are structural obstacles in the mechanisms for the implementation and enforcement of intellectual property regimes. member states face different challenges resulting from a variety of factors, especially in countries with weak intellectual property regimes, which have fallen victim to illicit trade in goods and services due to a lack of means to combat the spread of infringements. in the european union, we have to keep in mind that a strong legal framework for intellectual property is very important. to be able to function properly, it needs a strong and coherent toolbox in each of the member states. my country is among the worst affected. the proximity to major eastern markets is a prerequisite for a large influx of counterfeit goods. the analyses suggest that we should actively seek to support ip mechanisms through targeted coordinated surveillance projects and as a basis for good practice.
thank you, mr president, today, during the debate on mr landsbergis' report, the question of the european union's relations with russia has been raised again. the report clearly reflects our deeply damaged relationship and calls into question the basic principles of security in europe. however, we must ask ourselves: 'can the european union envisage a return to the previous relationship with russia?' and 'what action plan should the union put forward to return to the path of dialogue?' blacklisting european politicians and members of this parliament does not help to achieve this progress. moreover, it predisposes the conflict in ukraine to becoming frozen, and our experience with georgia shows that this is a serious obstacle to the development and stability of the countries concerned and to their rapprochement with the european union. the use of energy as a major foreign policy tool is a prerequisite for the crisis to spread and the effects to be felt in other parts of the region. in this context, i support the rapid establishment of a strong european energy union.
thank you, mr chairman. "united we stand" is the motto of bulgaria and that is exactly what we need today more than ever in the european union. europe must remain united in the face of the challenges that lie ahead from the east and the south. russia, instead of being our natural partner, sees us as an adversary. unfortunately, the ruling administration in the kremlin has not only retained the soviet union mentality, but is also trying to forcibly re-establish the union under a new name. but this new soviet administration is missing an important detail, which is that such a union should be voluntary and attractive to its citizens. and the evidence is that democracy is attractive. many young people from all over the world want to immigrate to the western democracies and the united states. moreover, many of the families of the ruling russian administration, including the children of mr. putin and mr. lavrov, have chosen to live in the western world. the current model of the kremlin's governance is not attractive. at the same time, the european union cannot stand by and not respond to the aggressive propaganda machine. i would also like to call for the reinstatement of nabucco and support the report by mrs landsbergis.
in writing. the geopolitical situation in which we find ourselves requires eu member states to be united. but to keep the peace around us, that's not enough. we need partners. such a partner should be russia, whose recent actions point in a very different direction. the unjustified ban list of european diplomats denied access to russian territory was another step towards isolating the current kremlin rulers. the break was another avenue for dialogue. instead of pulling out of eastern ukraine, russia is challenging europe and risking a more serious confrontation. worst predictions have been confirmed that the goals of today's rulers in moscow are far from european values. failure to comply with the minsk agreements will not help to reduce or remove sanctions against russia.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a crisis fund to cover losses to farmers is a good idea, especially to respond to force majeure circumstances, as is now the case with export bans to russia. in bulgaria, this has affected a number of sectors, including livestock and fruit production. such a mechanism should exist. the concern is that the provision of the financial resource provides for a correction of the basic payments by the indicated percentage of 1,393041. this is a short-sighted decision because it actually reduces subsidies as a kind of guarantee for the payment of aid for a future uncertain event. in this sense, we can consider this mechanism as a kind of insurance or guarantee premium. however, the idea of the mechanism described is quite different and this resource should be separated from the additional payments and provided separately, rather than deducted from the subsidies to producers. there are more flexible options.
thank you, madam president, i supported the report on the european union strategy for equality between women and men post-2015 because i am convinced that the inclusion of women in decision-making processes at all levels is essential for the implementation of gender equality policy. although half of europe's population is made up of women, our policy does not reflect this fact. most meps 63.1% and 75% of the members of the national parliaments are men. as the representation of women depends to a large extent on the political parties in so far as they determine the lists of candidates for the respective elections, i call on the european parliament to take a joint initiative by appealing to national parties to help women acquire the necessary political skills and to include them in the electoral lists.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because i believe that the foundation of a healthy society is the traditional family. i find it unacceptable that the commission should be called upon to enforce and change legislation in favour of the lgbt community, which is a minority. against the background of the demographic disaster in bulgaria and in europe in general, where the population is aging, i think that the main topic should be support for women who give birth, and not so much their so-called inclusion in the labor market. we need a strong, healthy family with a model of more than two children.
in writing. – i support this report because it is very important that we do not just protect the internal market against counterfeit goods. we must also ensure protection against illicit goods coming from third countries and the effect a weak intellectual property rights (ipr) protection system might have on the eu. it is crucial that we provide assistance to third states in terms of consultancy and training on improving enforcement measures and maintaining high standards. only a strong system with adequate protection measures will help us in the fight against illicit trade, child labour, financing of terrorist activities, etc. therefore, i welcome the proposals on the overall situation concerning ipr in third countries and the enforcement thereof.
in writing. – i greatly welcome the action plan initiative. it is essential to have a strong enforcement mechanism throughout the eu, and especially in countries dealing with combating counterfeit trade intensively on a daily basis whilst lacking the proper support and resources. bulgaria is one of those countries and we see that the consequences include not only damage to our and the european economy, but also consumer insecurity, child labour, issues of security, etc. therefore, the ec proposal is a valuable step forward to strengthening local resources and combating counterfeit goods and intellectual property rights (ipr) infringements more strategically and efficiently. after all, a legal framework is only effective if it is properly enforced.
rapporteur for the opinion of the imco committee. madam president, as rapporteur for the imco opinion on this subject, i have made clear my position on the need to overcome the heavy dependence on external energy suppliers and the high prices they impose in order to achieve a functioning internal energy market. one of the key elements for achieving these objectives is the improvement of energy infrastructure. therefore, as the bulgarian representative, i would like to draw your attention to the importance of integrating the south-east european region into the european gas market through the construction of a gas distribution centre in bulgaria and interconnections with its neighbouring countries. this will ensure natural gas flows from a variety of sources, including the mediterranean and the black sea. i believe that the implementation of such a project would be a real expression of the policy we are discussing today.
madam president, today’s debate is important on several levels. first of all, it is important politically, because it comes at a time when we are faced with various geopolitical challenges. secondly, it is important economically, because the european union’s prosperity and security hinges on a stable and abundant supply of energy. thirdly, it is important technically, because it requires the member states to successfully implement complex infrastructure projects. let me tell you the story of the country i know best, which has been active on all these levels in order to contribute to long-term energy security. bulgaria is still dependent on russian energy supplies but did not give in to recent pressures and instead took a step forward by working together with the commission and the member states in creating the high level group on central and south eastern europe gas connectivity (cesec). the aim of this group is to support cross-border diversification projects in the region, starting with a regional hub in bulgaria. this regional approach is the basis to developing key infrastructure better and faster, bringing success to the improvement in our energy security and, finally, achieving a diversification of suppliers. as i said before, and i would like to state it one more time, to me, european energy security means working together and staying connected – both politically, economically and technically.
in writing. the crisis in ukraine and the lack of a long-term solution for the region put in question the provision of reliable energy supplies. diversifying energy supplies is more important than ever, because the eu's prosperity and security require rational and highly efficient use of energy. the commission's natural gas stress tests have shown the vulnerability of the eu to dependence, and high energy costs are forcing industry to leave the eu, hampering europe's economic growth. in this context, i believe it is necessary to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable member states and to promote the exploitation of local conventional oil and gas fields in full compliance with the acquis of eu law. we need to focus on infrastructure development, the integration of sustainable energy sources and support for new projects. the creation of a single energy market requires above all political independence, and this can only be achieved with an affordable and sustainable energy supply.
in writing. more and more often, when we talk about energy security, we have to recall the precedents of the interruption of gas supplies from russia. as a result of the second such gas supply interruption in 2009, the losses to the bulgarian economy amounted to over eur 250 million. the crisis in ukraine and the european commission's stress tests have sent a clear signal that policies need to be updated to ensure europe's energy security. the european energy security strategy proposes a package of short- and long-term measures aimed at enhancing the eu's capacity to deal with a significant interruption of natural gas supplies during the winter season; strengthening emergency response and solidarity mechanisms, including coordination of risk assessments and emergency action plans, and protection of strategic infrastructure; reducing energy consumption; building a well-functioning and fully integrated internal market; diversifying external supplies and related infrastructure; improving the coordination of national energy policies and establishing common positions on external energy policy. i am convinced that only coordinated action will be able to counter the potential risks to energy security in the union.
in writing. energy security is a major challenge for the eu today in the context of the crisis in ukraine, which has created a new geopolitical fuel situation, especially for the countries of central and south-eastern europe. energy security therefore involves reducing dependence on russian gas imports to at least a manageable level. this can be achieved by improving energy efficiency, building a fully integrated internal energy market and its single regulation, decarbonising the energy mix, building on reliable and emission-free nuclear energy combined with renewable energy sources and increasing local energy production. the eu should support any sustainable local energy source that can contribute to our energy security. a key prerequisite for achieving this objective is the strengthening of regional cooperation between member states, including energy community countries, with a view to better coordinating national energy policies, and full convergence in shaping pan-european positions in energy negotiations with third countries. i strongly disagree with the drastic changes by some political groups to ban fossil fuels and nuclear power and to favor only energy efficiency and renewable energy. we can only prevent parliament from taking a decision on one of the most important european priorities for the union's energy security.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you, madam chairman. the outline of clear project objectives and the proportionality of the proposed measures to the need for a legislative solution remain among the most important issues in the 'smart borders' package. there are many ambiguities with regard to the legislative proposals currently in existence. it was pointed out that their objectives included dealing with the increasing flow of passengers, collecting statistics, tracking illegal residents and providing a higher level of security for european citizens. however, at the same time, law enforcement authorities in the member states continue to lack full cooperation and exchange of information to prevent and combat international crime. furthermore, the technical examination of the legislative proposals indicated that facial recognition as a stand-alone geometric recognition for the identification of passengers is also considered as a possibility. it is also the subject of an analysis during the trial phase which is currently underway. it is true that additional methods such as fingerprinting provide greater accuracy, but the large number of fingerprints slows down the process. longer storage leads to additional costs, and too short storage does not facilitate the management of passenger traffic. the question arises as to whether it is justified in the light of the additional resources that member states will have to invest and in the light of the inviolability of the person. secondly, as shadow rapporteur on the report on the amendments to the schengen code, i would also like to address the council representative and once again remind the latvian presidency that bulgaria and romania are fulfilling their obligations to protect europe's external borders, have fulfilled the admission requirements and will shoulder the burden of introducing all standards, requirements and security systems, alongside the schengen countries, which is another argument for our admission to schengen.
thank you, mr president, the current situation of increased terrorist threat to europe and of illegal migration pressure at the external borders requires clear and concrete measures to guarantee european security while not violating fundamental human rights. the 'intelligent borders' proposal is one such measure. border guards and law enforcement agencies of the european union need to know who, when and how crosses european borders. it is the only way to reduce illegal migration, to fight human trafficking, to prevent terrorist attacks in european cities. at the same time, the european economy will be supported by facilitating the travel of third-country nationals who frequently come to the european union for business or tourism. i believe i will have the support of many of my colleagues in saying that the 'smart borders' package should not be implemented at any cost but should be backed by reasonable financial means. at a time when the eu must set an example of careful spending of european funds, it should not pay for an overpriced project. the security of personal data should also not be compromised, especially in the context of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union on the retention of personal data. i therefore call on the european commission to make a careful analysis of the most financially efficient 'smart borders' project, as well as the legal basis and compatibility of the package with existing european legislation on the protection of personal data. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. once it is technically possible to monitor who is crossing the external european borders, the necessary mechanisms can be set up to locate potential terrorist threats, people associated with organised crime and, with the assistance of the security services, to take appropriate measures in each member state in europe.
mr president, for all we know, all these allegations might be true. however, the question is: how do we find the truth? it is not possible to arrive at an acceptable solution if we do not observe elementary rules of democracy and the democratic process. why was olaf’s report not presented to the committee on budgetary control? why was olaf not invited when the supervisory committee report was presented? the explanation that they are too confrontational, so they cannot sit in the same room, is ridiculous. it is the business of the committee on budgetary control, in collaboration with the commission, to see that an end is put to this absolutely unacceptable situation as quickly as possible because – as we repeat all the time – we need the confidence of our citizens. we have to show them that we are responsible. what are we doing? we are exchanging, through the media, through all sorts of different channels, allegations which cannot be examined in conjunction, and then we wonder why we look ridiculous in the eyes of our citizens. again i say: the procedure followed in the committee on budgetary control is beyond any acceptable standards. it is open to severe criticism.
thank you, mr president, i support the interinstitutional dialogue we have this evening, but i expect concrete answers. people and business outside are expecting them, too. and i assure you that the support of the people outside ends where their tolerance begins, and the people's tolerance for ugliness is zero. in the case of olaf, we may have a rule violation. but we may have a breach of the rights of the beneficiaries - both people and businesses. that's why we need results, and fast. otherwise we risk the trust of both people and businesses, which is at the heart of cohesion policy. and people and businesses alike are wondering how 423 cases are opened in 24 hours and why only 8% of them are completed. i sincerely hope that olaf has answers to these questions and has the iron logic to explain them, because otherwise we lose confidence in ourselves, in the institutions and in the european union, and we don't need that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i am convinced that only by the joint efforts of all parties will we not only be able to make progress in the fight against climate change, but also send a signal to the international community, and in particular to the united states, canada, russia and japan, which have not ratified the amendment. by voting in favour, the european parliament reaffirmed the commitments of the member states and iceland to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. for our children to have a future, we must act now!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the member states' obligations under the kyoto protocol for the second period from 2013 to 2020, because, although iceland has formally withdrawn its application for eu membership, it has expressed its willingness to jointly implement our efforts to actively combat climate change. together, we agree to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% below 1990 levels over the next five years. this will send a strong signal internationally to the other parties to the kyoto protocol and an example of how different countries can come together and collectively fulfil their commitments to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ this week, the european parliament made an unconditional commitment to take ambitious action on climate change. by adopting the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, the european union and iceland firmly state their commitment to reduce their emissions by an average of 20% below 1990 levels for the period 2013 to 2020. i am convinced that global climate change presents an unprecedented challenge to the international community, which must be met by responsible transnational action. i therefore believe that the european union's request to achieve further emission reductions by 2020, subject to a similar commitment by other developed countries, is a very important call and a guarantee for concrete action. i believe that with this decision the european parliament is once again demonstrating not only the european union's willingness to tackle global climate change, but also a call for global leadership and partnership in this area. and most importantly, the european union is thereby setting a high bar for the negotiations at the un climate change conference in paris at the end of 2015, where world leaders will discuss their commitments to keep global warming below 2 degrees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the eu. i am firmly convinced that cooperation between eu member states in criminal matters is of the utmost importance. the free movement of people within the eu is a fundamental right, but it sometimes allows criminals to escape to another member state. it is therefore important that croatia, as a new eu member, is also part of the mutual assistance convention, so that in such situations there is quick communication between law enforcement agencies in different countries and the reaction is timely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention against corruption, in which officials of the european communities or officials of eu member states participate. although this report is largely technical, by voting 'yes' i would like to express my support for equality before the law of all citizens of all eu member states. croatia is ranked 61st out of 174 countries in the transparency without borders corruption perceptions index. obviously, this is a big problem for the newest eu member. in this regard, whether it is an official or another ordinary citizen, the law regarding corruption should apply to all. i hope that by supporting this report, we will send a clear message to both croatia and bulgaria and the other eu members about how important it is to fight corruption not only at the highest levels of society, but in general.
in writing. ‒ accession to the convention on the fight against corruption, in which officials of the european communities or officials of eu member states participate, is important not only for croatia but also for the eu as a whole, as it concerns a matter of common interest improving judicial cooperation in the fight against corruption. corruption is a problem that affects long-term economic growth, sustainable development and equality in the union, and ultimately the interests of european taxpayers. given the importance of the convention as a common eu tool to tackle the problem, i am pleased that the report on croatia's accession to the convention was voted with such a convincing majority.
mr president, i voted 'abstention' on the report on the state of relations between the european union and russia because i consider that the report is incomplete and does not reflect all the issues and aspects of the issue. for example, we are witnessing russia's aggressive policy in the balkans. an example of this is the relationship with serbia and macedonia and their close relationship with the kremlin. serbia has systematically violated the decisions of the union, failing to comply with them in solidarity, as a state with the status of a negotiating party should do. as regards the republic of macedonia, this report does not contain any comment on the statements of the russian foreign minister. the report also omits the topic of energy and energy security and does not analyse the project 'russian stream'. in my view, this project must be given a clear assessment, and it must be borne in mind that the rapprochement between ankara and moscow is a serious threat to the union's foreign policy interests, and in particular to those of my country. the positive aspect of the report is that it touches on the conflict in ukraine, the barring of opposition parties from participating in the upcoming elections, the persecution of political opponents and the restriction of media freedom.
in writing. ‒ in supporting the report, i would like to remind you that the restrictive measures imposed are not against the russian people, but against the undemocratic model of governance. in this context, i believe it is necessary for the commission and the council to develop appropriate strategic communication tools and to work towards promoting a genuine and independent civil society in russia. we need to encourage cooperation between students and researchers to improve mutual understanding. last but not least, i call on the commission and the council to take immediate action against the externally funded european populist, fascist and xenophobic parties which aim to undermine democratic values and the rule of law in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always regarded the russian federation as a strategic partner and has sought constructive dialogue in its relations with it over the years. but we cannot consider a partner state that violates democratic principles, international law, freedom of speech, that calls into question the basic principles of security in europe and that attacks a sovereign and independent state. the harshness of the sanctions, as well as the eu's efforts to strengthen the independence of its gas supplies from russia, are a clear sign that europe is decisively changing the direction of its relations with the russian federation. as a representative of bulgaria, where russian propaganda and attempts at political and economic influence are so strong, i strongly support the sharp tone and the hardening of the eu's position towards the kremlin. with its actions in recent months, with its refusal to comply with the minsk agreements, with the use of jet fighters close to the airspace of nato and eu member states, russia has closed the door to a partnership with europe. i supported the resolution on the state of eu-russia relations because it provides clear evidence that we will not compromise on our principles and values.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on eu-russia relations because i find calls for the extension of sanctions by 'further extension of retaliatory measures' unacceptable. this 'war of sanctions' is only deepening the crisis and exacerbating relations between the union and the russian federation. europeans suffering from these circumstances are hundreds of times more numerous than those who are defined as having been affected by the crisis. it's not the european politicians, but the thousands of farmers all over europe, and the tourism industry in countries with a tradition in this respect with russia. it is almost a year since the russian federation's counter-embargo, but there is still no clear eu commitment to european farmers. in a situation of economic crisis in almost all of europe, it is unacceptable to expect these farmers to look for and find alternatives to this traditional market on their own. the illiberal politics of self-regulating markets and bold measures continue to shake the eu and make things worse, and create hardship for thousands of europeans.
i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy because it says that the commission should have the right to intervene as a negotiating party in the conclusion of all energy contracts by national states. bulgaria has twice suffered economic consequences and losses from purely political decisions such as the important and strategic projects related to the belene npp and the south stream project. the report also calls into question the safety and use of nuclear energy. it has been proven that this energy is the cheapest ever invented and its price increase is nothing more than an artificially created phenomenon. i should note here that after the unclear closure of units one, two, three and four of the kozloduy npp, bulgaria is left with only two working reactors, which, if not renewed, will be endangered as an energy center in the balkans and we will become an exporter of electricity to an importer from a non-european country turkey. i believe that this is contrary to the energy security of the union and i oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 annual report of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office. olaf has been heavily criticised for its poor cooperation with its supervisory board, which has failed to monitor olaf's independence and to perform its functions properly, due to the refusal to grant access to the necessary documents. i believe that as the european anti-fraud office, olaf should be monitored, but also that it should be given the freedom to carry out its duties.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the situation in hungary, as i consider it incomplete and does not reflect prime minister orbán's position sufficiently well. the report calls on the commission to activate the first phase of the eu rule of law framework and to submit a legislative proposal to establish an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i think that is not necessary and that the rule of law should be upheld by national governments without pressure from various euro-bureaucrats. i support the view expressed on 1 may 2015 by prime minister orban that the decision to re-introduce the death penalty should be the exclusive competence of the member states. i believe that it is up to the member states to define their own rules at national level.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution because the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and human rights. these values are universally valid for each member state and any attempt to undermine them calls into question the democratic principles on which the union is founded. the actions of the hungarian government in recent months should serve as a red light that freedom and democracy are being fought for every day. in this context, i call on the commission to carry out a thorough monitoring of the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. in conclusion, within the eu, it is necessary to create a special mechanism for the respect of democracy and human rights.
i did not support the resolution for the following reasons. first of all, i believe that the republic of turkey is not a european state, neither politically, nor culturally, nor historically, nor civilisationally. i do not think that the political leadership in turkey has any intention of becoming part of the european union and the european cultural and political tradition. secondly, i have not seen any texts that condemn turkey for refusing to participate in the operations against the islamic state, but on the contrary supporting the islamic state. i didn't see any texts that accused turkey of buying oil from isis for nothing. i didn't see any texts that raised the issue of turkish stream. another thing turkey benefits from import and export relief but does not comply with the union's policy on sanctions. this country only benefits from its european partnership, but never fully meets its obligations. these privileges must be terminated. turkey is also helping the wave of illegal migrants to bulgaria and greece. this cannot happen without the official ankara's consent. turkish companies and drivers are dumping our companies on social. that's not in the resolution, either. that is why i cannot support such a text. i think we are being soft on this neighbor of ours who is demonstrating no respect for our interests and who, in my opinion, has no place in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i believe that turkey is the european union's most important regional partner and we should support them on their european path. eu-turkey cooperation in foreign policy and counter-terrorism is a shining example of the common values we share, and the high turnout in the recent elections underlines the country's level of democracy. however, the inclusion of the armenian genocide in the report has had a destructive effect on our relations, as the purposive use of historical facts has led to modern political conflicts.
in writing. ‒ one of the key issues for the future of european integration is that of turkey's accession to the european union. i supported the european parliament's resolution on the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey, which clearly articulated many of the important elements of this issue. the accession negotiations with turkey are a 'long process with uncertain outcome, based on fair and rigorous demands and a commitment to reform'. the copenhagen criteria are clear, as is the obligation to maintain good neighbourly relations and to ensure the successful democratization of the country. in this context, i welcome the active civil society in turkey and the results of the recent parliamentary elections. this election was about a very important process that could lead to the possibility of a heavy constitutional change and in practice turn turkey into a presidential republic with a strong authoritarian element. the turkish voters have not allowed the formation of an all-powerful majority and now turkey will have to be governed by a coalition. turkey is a strategic partner of the european union. i hope that the country will not 'tired' in the negotiation process (the start of formal negotiations was given on 3 october 2005) and will bring to a conclusion the necessary reforms to develop the full potential of our relations.
mr president, in april 2007 the european commission launched its cooperation initiative in the black sea region through the black sea interaction project. the region is a growing market with great potential for development and an important hub for energy and transport flows. the black sea is a key euro-atlantic component of strategic importance for the european union and its member states, in particular when it comes to ensuring their security. the document focuses on economic and trade cooperation, while cooperation in the field of security and defence is not mentioned enough. today, the current format seems to be outdated. the geopolitical balance of the black sea basin has been upset and the existing conflicts in the region have been escalating since the annexation of crimea. in this context, i think it is timely for the european external action service and mrs mogherini to revise the european maritime security strategy and in particular the european union's black sea strategy. the new european union strategy must be developed in full coordination with our nato partners.
blue-card question.– you mention bulgaria, the baltic states and romania joining the european union and nato. those were legitimate decisions on the part of these countries. so you are against the legitimate decisions of the authorities of these countries to join the union, which is where they want to be? or how am i to understand your statement?
mr president, it is clear that the sovereignty of national borders and territorial integrity must be respected and that the annexation of crimea should be condemned as a violation of international law. but the report is not just about relations between the european union and russia. he was the president of the council of ministers of the republic of crimea from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2014. this report omits something very important namely the policy of the republic of turkey and the events that may result from it. while we are so fairly condemning the policies of president putin, we must not forget that the policies of his colleague president erdogan are absolutely the same and are two sides of the same coin. when we talk about insecurity in the black sea basin, we should also be talking about the behavior of the turkish state, its support for the islamic state, the possible new wave of refugees that could be targeted and assisted by the republic of turkey. otherwise, denying and condemning only one act of annexation and aggression would be a double standard. i therefore also turn to my fellow rapporteur: when we talk about the black sea basin, we must also take account of the anti-european policy of the republic of turkey.
mr president, clearly the black sea has turned into a focal point of confrontation, involving strategic national security interests of the highest importance for the countries of the region. in order to overcome this situation, we are offered two approaches: armaments and oneupmanship, which the rapporteur seems to be proposing. this is a road to nowhere. what is needed is to take seriously each side’s security concerns and to examine ways of diplomatically overcoming those concerns. i strongly support urging the commission to become involved in a new black sea strategy building on cooperation.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague and vice-president mr pascu for the good work on the report. the illegal annexation of crimea and the build-up of russian military equipment there is changing the balance of power in the black sea basin. this creates new risks, especially for the countries that are on the eastern flank of nato. the expansion of the conflict from eastern ukraine to the south threatens to engulf regions populated by a compact and bulgarian minority in the zaporizhia and odessa regions, as well as affect moldova, where a large bulgarian community also lives. the rights of other minorities in the annexed territories, and in particular of the indigenous crimean tatars, who are persecuted for their support for the territorial integrity of ukraine, also need to be monitored more closely. the same applies to the rest of the population in crimea, as well as to the population of the luhansk and donetsk regions, which are increasingly facing human rights violations. we must work to secure new energy suppliers and reduce our dependence on russian supplies not just in words but ultimately in deeds. this is particularly true of eastern europe, such as bulgaria. we need a pipeline like the nabucco, and that's why i'm saying categorically that we need to start unfreezing the project. nabucco, or a pipeline that goes through bulgaria, is a chance for europe. but addiction is not only energy, it's also corruption, my friends. we need to fight corruption inside and outside the european union. russian politics and business use this corruption to gain influence and control. it is very important to respond to both the aggressive russian propaganda machine and the ongoing repression against political opponents of the regime. in this regard, i call again from this podium for the immediate release of the ukrainian woman, nadia savchenko, who has been abducted and illegally detained on russian territory. russia should abide by international treaties. it is unacceptable in the 21st century to work with practices from the cold war.
madam president, the republic of bulgaria is the oldest sovereign state that has an outlet to the black sea. the bulgarians have been linked to this region historically and economically for centuries. it is in the interest of bulgaria and the european union that the black sea basin be declared a zone free from military presence and military actions, in which provocations are not carried out, and which is not the object of speculation by parties to a military conflict. i am firmly convinced that the european union must play the role of guarantor of peace in the black sea, stimulate social and economic development in the border areas and promote their convergence. any military presence would have a detrimental effect on tourism, fishing and shipping. i urge you to do what you can to limit militarism at the expense of active diplomacy. the annexation of crimea was a gross violation of international law, but the nabucco project would be a serious and good response to russian aggression. i call for active dialogue without military arguments.
i support the resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption at fifa, because i believe that this international scandal, which is linked to one of the most popular sports in europe and the world, will have a damaging effect on the reputation of football. fifa has been the subject of accusations of corruption for years. but the arrest of 14 officials on charges of money laundering, racketeering and bribery this time went beyond football and into the political spectrum, even beyond it. this is about people's lives and health. over 1,200 people have died building qatar's stadiums, a fact that fifa continues to turn a blind eye to. in brazil, there were a number of protests against the hosting of the world cup, and yet we are talking about a country where football is a religion. it is vital that an independent body is set up to monitor compliance with ethical standards. fifa must regain the trust of the people, and this is through the introduction of the mandate of the members of the executive committee and the transparency of the salaries of the senior management. first, i call on the commission, together with the member states, to make the best use of the framework set out in the european union work plan for sport, focusing on actions and concrete measures directly affecting good governance. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that to date only nine member states have signed the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions. the worst part is that the corruption scandal will inevitably affect not only professional football organizations, but also amateur clubs. it is professional and amateur sport that is an important vehicle for the message of peace and respect for human rights worldwide. preserving their integrity is vital.
mr. president, azerbaijan is a country with a rich history and a distinctive national culture. for many years it was part of the soviet union, and today it is seeking its own identity and its own political presence. azerbaijan's ambitions to play a serious and visible role in europe are confirmed not only by baku's aspiration to partner with the european union and even deepen integration processes, but are also illustrated by its bright bid to host the first european summer olympic games. for this initiative, azerbaijan has invested 10 billion dollars, over 10,000 volunteers have joined the organization. of course, europe has its principles, rules and criteria and we should not close our eyes to any deviation from the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. but this should not make us irreconcilable opponents, and we should not treat this situation with any condemnation or as a last resort, mr president, but rather as a partnership to solve democratic problems.
mr president, let us look at the question posed: sport and politics. the azerbaijani authorities are being questioned precisely because they want to gain political credit – but is it also right to invite what is really a propaganda attack against the azerbaijani government on the subject of human rights precisely at the time of these games? these are olympic games. historically, when olympic games took place, hostilities were ceased. it was an occasion to try to come together, and i venture to say that if there were not this preparation for such an onslaught, there would not have been this harsh regime, which we cannot accept, of course. but we have to question what brought it about in this particular case.
author. mr president, unfortunately the situation in syria has escalated dramatically in recent months and the actions taken by the assad regime, daesh and other terrorist groups are not enough, despite the efforts of the international coalition. this time, the ancient historic city of palmyra is under siege by daesh. palmyra was one of the most important cultural centers of the ancient world, but for daesh it was a site of important gas deposits and part of the strategy of warfare. the european union should use all its tools to protect the heritage of palmyra and other syrian sites, and to strengthen its cooperation with the secretary-general of unesco in the fight against cultural cleansing. i draw particular attention to the continued violation of human rights, international humanitarian law, torture and mass arrests by the assad regime. arbitrary detention and disappearance of independent journalists, human rights defenders and humanitarian workers are criminal acts that must be condemned and punished.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to express my concern as a member of the european parliament representing a country on the eastern external border of the european union. the actions of the islamic state terrorists have already had their effect - increasing the flow of refugees, severing economic ties and instilling panic in the general population. without a doubt, the destruction of the ancient cities of palmyra, nimrud, mosul, hatra, and khorsabat is intended to both cause terror and serve as a means of financing terrorism. much of the ancient historical heritage of syria, iraq, libya will now be offered on the black market for antiquities. the european union must step up the fight against smuggling of artefacts to stop the islamic state's attempts to finance its crimes. i call for an urgent meeting of the council of ministers of the interior to coordinate measures and actions to combat antiquities trafficking as a key priority for the external and internal security of the european union.
madam chairman, the fall of palmyra, of ramadi is a clear proof of the ineffectiveness of the policy pursued by the so-called coalition against the islamic state. it's very clear that with limited air strikes, with logistical support for the so-called moderate opposition, not only is isis not defeated, but it's growing stronger and stronger, advancing and taking new territory in syria and iraq, and now in libya. once again we are witnessing rivers of blood and monstrous crimes against humanity, once again we are witnessing the destruction of a cultural and historical heritage that will never be restored. it is time to finally give serious attention to the issue of the islamic state, to rethink the policy of the countries that should be leading this anti-terrorist operation. and we must also think about the policy towards turkey, which is supposed to be supporting terrorists, if we do not want to see what happens in palmyra tomorrow in washington, in brussels, in paris and in other cities.
madam president, in the course of tuesday’s debate on the supervisory committee report on olaf, a member of this parliament, mr sarvamaa, addressed me in the most insulting and unacceptable terms. he charged me, in a most slanderous way, with deliberately lying and consciously trying to mislead the debate. i find this totally unacceptable, and i want to bring it to the attention of all our colleagues. in all my deliberations i have expressed definite, categorical opinions, but always to the best of my knowledge and to the best of my ability to interpret facts. i will be continuing this debate in the committee on budgetary control, where i can go into the substance of the issue, because i know that rule 164 does not permit me to do so. however, i want to be very clear that the type of procedure being pursued in the committee needs very serious review and upgrading.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin after the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, because i believe that the report omits very important events and turkey is listed as a strategic partner of the union. i think that the republic of turkey is making good use of its status as a candidate country, but we must note its close cooperation with russia. as a bulgarian representative, i must remind you that the south stream project, which was supposed to pass through bulgaria, was terminated and in its place another gas corridor, called turkish stream, is planned to be built, which will bypass bulgaria and is contrary to the economic interests of both bulgaria and the union. nor is russia's role in relations between the balkan states noted. mostly not reflected is its role in macedonia and serbia, which, although having no outlet to the black sea, have their weight in the distribution of military forces.
in writing. i did not support the report on the military situation in the black sea basin because i believe that the aggressive language in it will lead to a worsening of the situation in the region. i do not support paragraph 16, which calls for tightening economic measures between the eu and russia. the 'war of sanctions' that europe has launched is causing hardship for thousands of europeans. in a state of near-universal economic crisis, thousands of farmers are forced to look for alternatives to their traditional russian market on their own, without adequate help from the european commission. i also disagree with the call for explicit coordination between nato and the us and with the alliance's activities in the black sea region. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. i also disagree with the recommendation to expand nato missile defense in the black sea region. just months ago, the north atlantic alliance said that the goal of this defense was not russia. the deployment of such facilities in the black sea region would lead to a swift response and unnecessary escalation of tensions in the region - something that no eu citizen would approve of!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on corruption cases in fifa because i find it unacceptable to allow corruption at such a high level, and even more so in an international organisation of the fifa rank. i support what the text of the resolution says, that unfortunately corruption in fifa is deep and systematic and that is why structural reforms in the organisation must be made. transparency is needed and the fact that fifa has not published the full text of the garcia report is reprehensible. fifa must guarantee an open, balanced and democratic decision-making process and must not tolerate corruption in sport. measures should be taken to effectively tackle corruption and any indications of its presence both in fifa and in national football associations, in particular those within the eu.
mr president, first of all, very warm congratulations to our two vice-presidents today, mr katainen and ms georgieva, for their strong leadership and commitment that led us through this process – and that is why we are here today – as well as to my colleagues mr karas and mr fernandes and many others, who worked tirelessly to match this very tight schedule. on very key and important projects such as this, citizens expect us to deliver, and this is what we did in the most efficient way possible. but if we only worked in such a swift and efficient way on other projects such as the digital single market or the energy union, europe would probably blossom not only through springtime but throughout the entire year. yet, as commissioner georgieva mentioned earlier, the tough part of the job is ahead of us now, so we need to get efsi to function in an efficient and cohesive manner. what i would like to see – and what we need to help with – is business ideas becoming quality operational projects with high returns, by providing the necessary assistance. this means that technical and advisory support should be readily available to get projects off the ground, especially in states with less experience and expertise. this is why i very much welcome – and i think it is a very good thing – to have the european investment advisory hub. but charging business for the use of its services might create a barrier for those in greater need of assistance. with the political will and the right incentives for projects to be realised, this investment plan can be … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to create a european fund for strategic investments (efsi) comes at a crucial moment when the eu is struggling to emerge from the economic crisis, which has resulted in a 15% drop in investment in the union. i was very concerned by the commission's initial proposal, as it said that the approval of projects financed by this fund would depend entirely on their economic return and support for economic growth without any geographical distribution. my concerns were that with this type of criteria, efsi-funded projects would concentrate in the better developed regions of the eu, further widening the gap with the less developed regions, such as those in bulgaria. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the efsi, which is a key instrument for the implementation of the european union's external policy. the ep's proposals radically change the commission's original text, namely that they give a chance to less developed regions, such as those in bulgaria, to apply for efsi funding projects.
in writing. the economic crisis has left a deep impression on the confidence of citizens and businesses in europe's ability to create the right conditions for growth and jobs. we have passed many legislative measures in recent years and they are already producing positive results, but the psychological impact of the crisis continues to hamper europe's return to a sustainable economic growth path. with the adoption of the juncker plan today, we are sending a strong signal that the union's institutions are committed to the problems of its citizens and are working to solve them. as politicians, we have a responsibility to create the right environment and to ensure that vital investments are directed towards those projects in the member states that will improve the living standards of citizens and create a better future for young people. i believe that the allocation of the investments to be mobilised through the european fund for strategic investments should be geographically balanced and should not lead to a deepening of regional disparities. at the moment, it is also of enormous geopolitical importance, given the instability and security challenges in the eastern part of the continent. the fund also provides an additional guarantee to counter attempts to divide member states through various external economic, energy, cultural projects and financial incentives from third countries.
in writing.– i see the european fund for strategic investments as a key instrument for risk finance for smes and a driver for the future competitiveness of the european economy. though i am satisfied with what we were able to achieve so far – namely: less to be taken from the existing programmes, cef and horizon 2020; for countries which are still progressing in the r&d area and finalising their modern infrastructure, eur 1 billion less cuts will give them an equal chance to prosper; the steering board would not be politically influenced, and member states and third parties as contributors in the guarantee fund will not intervene in the decisions; the principle of additionally has been supported, which means that similar projects may not be cofinanced with other eu funding opportunities; and technical assistance is provided – nevertheless i would like to stress that many projects have already been announced as approved for financing, before the final agreement being reached. i think this practice should be abandoned because it confuses the beneficiaries and it is not fair towards them. finally, i put my hopes that the efsi will give young entrepreneurs the courage to realise their brave and innovative ideas in the european and global markets.
in writing.– to achieve credibility of the stability and growth pact (sgp), it is essential to apply its rules across the member states in a transparent, fair and timely manner. admittedly, it is not advisable to resort to a one-size-fits-all approach across the eu when implementing the guidelines of the pact. however, the commission has to ensure that the balance between flexibility and the application of rules is maintained. exceptions must be granted only when based on evident facts and their unbiased interpretation, and political bargaining must be avoided at all costs. we cannot accept political statements as a proof of genuine reform. the economic and monetary union – especially in the light of the five presidents report – should thus avoid introducing further flexibility into the existing system, while focusing on successful implementation of the rules laid out in the stability and growth pact instead. furthermore, sufficient attention must be paid to the country-specific recommendations provided in the framework of the european semester. we need political will and clear guidelines in order to achieve the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves.
madam president, as we discuss the commission’s action plan for fairer corporate taxation in the european union, we can see that this is not some dry or technical matter. it is actually a very important day-to-day issue which we need to see from three different perspectives. these three different perspectives can be in terms of continuity, efficiency and competitiveness. speaking of continuity, the action plan on corporate taxation is part and parcel of a growth agenda which president juncker has been implementing with determination since november last year. it is no coincidence that taxation falls within plenary debates such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the stability and growth pact. looking at the bigger picture, it reminds us that taxation rules can be combined and complemented by other initiatives at eu level to bring the best possible results. importantly, initiatives such as the digital agenda and the use of new technologies can aid the transparent collection and control of tax contributions. just to give a quick example: in estonia, 95% of tax declarations are filled in electronically and the process takes about five minutes. it is so much easier for businesses and saves so much time which is not spent on queuing but actually on doing business. this brings me to efficiency, which requires clear uniform rules. as in most areas of taxation, it is best to keep things simple. the more exceptions and specific regulations there are, the more loopholes can be created. these loopholes can be exploited by the most skilled players and are often to the disadvantage of smes. this brings me to my last point: competitiveness. with continuity and efficiency, we can also support competitiveness for our companies, which will do business in a much more clearly-regulated environment. this is crucial for smes. europe needs highly efficient and productive enterprises that can withstand global competition.
dear colleagues, in recent days, tensions have increased in bulgarian society, caused by the boom in ethnic domestic crime. on the borders of the roma slums, clashes and confrontations are increasingly occurring, caused by the arrogant and aggressive behaviour of some of their inhabitants. bulgaria is on the brink of social and ethnic conflict. part of the fault for not removing these illegal structures in the neighborhoods is their protection by european institutions and colleagues who protect them and prevent the equal and equal application of the laws to all bulgarian citizens. this is a clear discrimination against the majority of bulgarian citizens, especially taxpayers, and it is an injustice that creates strong social tension. similar problems with the borders of illegal slums exist in france, belgium, the czech republic, slovakia and other european countries, which shows that the european approach and model of integration is flawed, wrong and ineffective. on the other hand, the authorities in paris, ghent and elsewhere are clearly unable to deal with the integration of the inhabitants of the illegal roma slums in the way they recommend, and then they try to return them back to bulgaria. i find this behavior hypocritical, un-european and dishonest. they are european citizens in the sense of the teu, they have the right to free movement and i would very much like to see successful examples of integration at european level. i urge a review of the european commission's policy on so-called integration, decades and other failed ventures, an end to the indiscriminate funding of theft foundations and ngos and a return to the model of personal responsibility, civic duty and equal respect for the law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to create a european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as the commission proposal was substantially amended in the interest of my country, bulgaria. i was very concerned by the commission's original text, as it said that the approval of projects financed by this fund would depend entirely on their economic return and support for economic growth without any geographical distribution. my concerns were that with this type of criteria, efsi-funded projects would concentrate in the better developed regions of the eu, further widening the gap with the less developed regions, such as those in bulgaria. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the efsi, which is a key instrument for the implementation of the european union's external policy.
in writing. i believe that the european fund for strategic investments should be used fairly and geographically balanced to reach as many european citizens as possible. by concentrating resources in already highly developed areas and lacking funding in poorer ones, the gaps not only between member states but also between their regions are widening. in this context, i strongly hope that: firstly, there will be a geographical balance in the allocation of projects; secondly, that funds will be allocated to rural, remote and disadvantaged areas; thirdly, that the funds will also be used to tackle high unemployment, especially in rural and remote areas where it is a very acute problem; fourthly, that priority will be given to projects that create long-term quality jobs; i believe that this fund should help to address worrying trends such as the depopulation and isolation that are affecting disadvantaged regions and areas, most of which are rural.
in writing.– the capital markets union (cmu) is a classic project meant for all 28 member states; an initiative aimed to overcome dividing lines and boost the growth of the real economy in europe. i welcome the commission’s efforts to build a true single market for capital, which would make it easier to channel available savings into the productive economy, enhance the funding sources for smes and break down barriers for investment across borders. growth has to be funded without building debt and by avoiding a focus on one type of creditor. currently, european companies rely on banks for three quarters of their overall debt financing, especially in states with less developed capital markets. capital markets activity in some member states needs to increase more than twice to achieve the average for the eu. this process can be triggered by finalising the cmu, which will enable more intensive flows of capital and will reduce discriminatory factors at play in access to financing, like the origin of the borrowers and the lenders or the business location. these developments will be especially beneficial for member states with less deep and diverse capital markets, and i call on member states to implement the recommended policies as swiftly as possible once the cmu strategy has been published.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the report on the prospects for the eu dairy industry is extremely important for countries like bulgaria, where the dairy industry provides many jobs, especially in the least developed regions of the country. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr nicholson, with whom i had the opportunity to discuss the problems of bulgarian milk producers and processors and the position of the bulgarian government on this dossier. i am pleased that, as a result of the discussions and negotiations on the dossier, the proposal has paid particular attention to the impact of the russian embargo and to helping the most affected countries, such as bulgaria. the second main point in the proposal is that the current quota decisions should be maintained in order to avoid further market instability. the abolition of quotas risks further concentrating milk production in favour of the largest dairy farms and to the detriment of the smallest, such as producers in bulgaria. i fully support mr nicholson's work and wish him success in the future negotiations.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the milk sector in a number of member states is worrying - the purchase prices of raw milk and cheese continue to fall. since january of this year, milk purchase prices in bulgaria have been at their lowest levels in five years. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the measures in force. i welcome the report, as it proposes a number of measures to strengthen the bargaining position of milk producers and their ability to withstand market crises (strengthening contractual relations, encouraging sectoral association, risk management tools). price volatility as a consequence of the abolition of quotas requires additional action to safeguard the livelihoods of the most vulnerable, namely small producers, producers in mountain and less-favoured areas. i therefore call for the funds from the surcharge to be returned to the sector, providing temporary emergency support for eu dairy farmers if the situation continues to deteriorate. the russian embargo has shown the disruption that the loss of a certain foreign market can cause. the challenge now is to optimise domestic consumption, which can be encouraged through various promotional measures, guarantee schemes, additional payments for the products concerned (e.g. cheese) and the school milk scheme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak in the one-minute procedure to introduce the now publicised case of the bullet mosque in karlov, republic of bulgaria. under the pretext of "let's reveal the scientific truth", the local authorities of the municipality of karlovó are trying to oppose institutions, leading historians and the public. being aware that in the early stages of the excavation a muslim necropolis from the early 19th century was discovered, we insist that scientific digging should not be an excuse for desecrating these graves. the feverish excavation around a building, the subject of a fierce legal dispute, suggests that the procedure for granting permission to carry out the excavation has been completed. i speak from the rostrum of the european parliament to the bulgarian minister of culture. mr. minister, i ask that you conduct a due diligence on compliance with the procedure, with the results of which being made public. in addition, in the case of the discovery of artifacts related to the muslim religious and secular tradition, the muslim confession of the republic of bulgaria should be notified. in closing, i sincerely hope you will not give me further cause for comment on this and other similar cases. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, commissioner, first of all the agreement must be mutually beneficial for all, especially for small and mediumsized businesses. it represents a historic opportunity for us to set the high standards on the global stage. i think energy should be part of this agreement. the european union really needs to diversify its energy supply. unilateral visa restrictions for citizens of bulgaria, romania, poland, cyprus and croatia are discriminatory and should be abolished. many myths and false claims are being spread, even though we still don't have a text agreed upon between the two sides. it is necessary to dispel this speculation and ensure that environmental protection standards, the health of european citizens and the right of states to regulate in the public interest are not compromised. it is deplorable that this has been used to set populists, nationalists and communists against each other ideologically, and to lead to a complete distortion of the debate on the potential benefits and risks of the agreement. i am convinced that the european parliament will only support the future agreement if it is in the interests of the citizens and their voice is heard.
in writing. big goals in history require big steps and big vision. steps and vision have led to things like the european union. what we need is the next big thing in economics. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is this big thing, far more than just a trade deal. it's an agreement between the two strongest democracies in the world, between the two largest consumer markets and financial systems. the ctbt is the gateway to investment, jobs and opportunities for europe's small and medium-sized businesses. to get there, we need to dispel some myths and tell some truths. there is no room for backroom deals - member states will have the final say. there can be no compromise on online security - the protection of personal data is a fundamental right in the eu. only member states can decide whether their health systems will be public or private. the cipt is designed for small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 99% of companies in europe. a new market will be opened up for young entrepreneurs, non-tariff barriers (bureaucracy) will be eased, e-commerce will be strengthened. this is no time for tpp populism. populism leads to situations like greece. it is time for sound economic decisions, for a vision and for the future of europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of ms bettina michelle jacobsen as a member of the court of justice as a representative of the danish government, as her professional experience and competence are of an exceptionally high level.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of this report because it concerns merely a simple and straightforward codification of existing texts. in my opinion, streamlining the european legal framework is very important in light of our commitment to the rules of subsidiarity and proportionality and improved understanding for citizens.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing more normal than for budget surpluses to be spent in the accounting year concerned on urgent payments or other commitments or, if this is not possible or there is simply not enough time, to be carried over to the next budget period and used there. that is why i will support this report, especially when it mentions my country's name and that more funds will be mobilised for it under the solidarity fund. i won't go into detail here about why my country needs these funds, but i will ask everyone here: please spend this money wisely, properly and so that it can create more added value for the community.
in writing. ‒ the 'solidarity fund' is a mechanism to repair damage caused by force majeure, by force majeure. this is about disasters and accidents. the mechanism may not be very fair, as i have pointed out on more than one occasion. the mechanism may be benefiting the richer countries at the expense of us, the poorer ones. but when we talk about overcoming the damage of natural disasters, of accidents that affect the population of entire regions, we have to set an example of solidarity. that's why in situations like this, we should help each other first, and then argue about methods and approaches here.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilising the european union solidarity fund for bulgaria, romania and italy and providing assistance to these countries to deal with the consequences of last year's floods. bulgaria is one of the countries that has been hit particularly hard by the floods of the past year. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, the disaster has shown that in such cases member states are in urgent need of assistance. unfortunately, the procedure for mobilising the 'solidarity' fund can only be launched if an application is made by the national authorities within 12 weeks of the disaster. i believe that the mechanisms for granting the aid so necessary should be simplified and the procedures shortened. people can't and shouldn't wait more than a year for money to come to them. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ although i have repeatedly pointed out the weaknesses of the methodology used to determine the assistance from the solidarity fund, it is a mechanism that shows genuine solidarity between member states. i can argue a lot about why some people get a certain amount and others a smaller amount, but that is a whole other debate. i'd like to take this opportunity to remind everyone that there is no such thing as natural disaster insurance. that is why we must spare no effort to help the affected regions, to help the people who live there. it is our duty and a sign of true solidarity. the other is a small grocery bill that i don't even want to comment on.
in writing. in the summer of 2014, a number of european countries were hit by floods. one of the countries most affected, along with romania and italy, was bulgaria. in my country, they have taken the lives of dozens of citizens, destroyed basic infrastructure and left many people homeless. i therefore welcome the release of eur 1.98 million from the eu solidarity fund for flood damage in the misia region. this financial assistance will undoubtedly be useful in repairing the damage caused to public and private infrastructure, including the affected farms. however, i believe that the granting of these funds is only a temporary solution to the problem. in order to avoid similar disasters in the future, it is necessary to focus on the need for preventive measures. i believe that the culture of prevention should be taught in schools. to this end, we need a clear commitment at institutional level and public engagement. the preparation of a flood risk assessment is essential if we are to avoid such tragedies in the future and be able to protect european citizens and their property.
in writing. ‒ i voted with 'abstention' on the report on achieving multimodal integrated ticketing in europe for a number of reasons. in theory, the idea of a single ticketing system in europe and the creation of an online platform for travel planning accessible to all for free sounds great, but de facto, unrealistic targets are set that would cost the livelihood of dozens of small carriers. the report sets out the idea that by 2020 every form of public transport will be equipped with an intelligent system that monitors the movement of the vehicle in real time. but you can imagine what a computer system like that would cost by our standards and what would happen to the small carriers that are already in the industry, not to mention those that are just starting to get in. we will find ourselves in a monopoly situation where the entire industry is held by a few large firms and the smaller players will not have the opportunity to be competitive because of the overwhelming demands of the multimodal integrated system in question. these were the main reasons why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ one of the challenges facing the european transport sector is to find an easier way to plan trips and combine different modes of transport. i support the ambitious aim of introducing the possibility of buying a single ticket valid for all modes of transport within the european union. the resolution adopted by parliament calls on the commission and the member states to support efforts to achieve this goal through a clear framework, minimum rules and timetable. the ease and convenience of purchasing tickets is key to achieving a single european transport area, will make it easier for consumers and will ultimately attract more passengers. in another week when everyone's attention is focused on solving the greek problem, i welcome good european ideas like this one. transport is a key sector of the economy, and many jobs depend on it. i am convinced that the european union will give us the right tools to tackle the challenges of the increasingly mobile society we live in today. many of us no longer remember that it was impossible to cross borders with only an id card. now that's a fact. i believe that the modernisation of the ticketing system is a good initiative, an example of how the european institutions can and do serve the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) because i support the idea of creating an additional mechanism to promote investment in our country. the economic crisis has led to a sharp decline in investment across europe, which requires a common and coordinated effort at european level to achieve sustainable economic growth in europe. in the situation with countries such as greece, italy, spain and portugal, it is important to focus on fiscal responsibility. however, this is not enough and other mechanisms should be sought to stimulate those member states, including bulgaria, which follow a strict fiscal policy and have a low deficit. the investment plan for europe is at the heart of a long-term development strategy. bulgaria is participating with 100 million euros, but our country has control over what projects these funds go to, and can give priority to those of national importance. although we may not see the effects of this new strategy immediately, in the long run the idea is to increase private investment in our economy, and thereby more and better-paying jobs and a higher standard of living.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) report, because it is an important step towards long-term growth, job creation and tackling poverty. efsi, which is at the heart of the european investment plan, will enhance growth, particularly in the areas of research and development, innovation and education. the fund will be a key element in countries such as bulgaria that are less developed and with less expertise. in particular, the european investment advisory hub will help these countries develop their potential and allow them to achieve further economic growth. furthermore, it will take a vital role in our ambition to stimulate the small and medium-sized enterprises within the eu as it will finance projects with a higher risk profile that will lead to more private investments. i welcome the report imposing stronger reporting requirements and increased accountability to the ep.
in writing. - i agree with the report in principle. i have some remarks to make about the wording. there is no doubt that much more money should be allocated to migration policy. i agree that the southern coastal states are facing unprecedented pressure. i agree that this is a trend, not an isolated phenomenon. but i don't see a word of it coming from bulgaria, and we're also under unprecedented pressure. it's time to think about bulgaria. it's good to have additional funding. the situation is extraordinary. i would like to point out that there are no refugees from ukraine in this size, moreover bulgaria is ready to accept its compatriots from ukraine. i just want to stress that it's time to say honestly here how many more migrants from asia and africa we can take in. i think we've crossed the threshold of what's possible a long time ago. isn't it time we gave a clear sign that this can't go on?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an additional €69.6 million to deal with the migration pressure towards europe, because the crisis of recent years has shown that stronger measures are needed at european level to overcome this pressure. the funds released are not enough to meet the objectives set - increasing the capacity of naval operations triton and poseidon, which save lives on the high seas, and supporting member states through the asylum and migration fund and the internal security fund - but they are only the first step towards a rethinking of european migration policy. bulgaria will be entitled to receive part of the money provided to implement and comply with european legislation on the reception of refugees - to ensure sufficient capacity for their accommodation, the rapid processing of asylum applications, and their integration into society. the sad truth is that the conflicts in europe's neighbourhood will not be resolved anytime soon. so countries like bulgaria, the eu's external borders, must be prepared for new waves of refugees, which are already becoming a daily reality. the appropriations allocated will allow for this preparation to begin.
madam president, the measures proposed by the european commission in the new reality facing the dairy sector are extremely inadequate and far from meeting the challenges facing a large number of european milk processors. a few days ago, russia issued a decree extending the import ban for another year. this news was received with concern and disappointment by the bulgarian dairy farmers. disappointment because the intervention mechanisms proposed by the european commission last year proved inadequate to their needs. this is not due to a reluctance to participate in the schemes, but to the european commission's refusal to allow white and yellow cheeses into these mechanisms. in supporting this report, i call on the commission to put in place adequate mechanisms in the short term and to extend the list of products eligible for support. the free market in the sector has led to the free fall of more than one or two dairy processing industries in the european union. i strongly believe that the union must intervene with adequate emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ there is a big risk for dairy farmers in a small country like bulgaria after the abolition of milk quotas. it's a well-known fact that only in our yogurt is the bacterium lactobacillus bulgaricus, which makes it delicious, healthy and sought after around the world. i therefore hope that the eu will be able to use all the opportunities for economic expansion so that we do not lose such valuable products in the absence of milk quotas.
in writing. ‒ countries’ societies and economic structures, and the dynamism thereof, benefit from environments which allow interaction between the public and private sectors; public-private partnerships (ppps) are a long-term tool used in government policies at international, national, regional and local level, there is no internationally recognised definition and comprehensive regulatory framework for them; we need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity inside the eu and in third countries; both smes and larger companies alike can provide unique private-sector know-how, experience and good practices, as well as networks involving public authorities in non-eu countries, effectively helping to deliver on sustainable development policies.
madam president, i strongly support paragraph 18 of the report on fruit and vegetables and call in particular on the european commission to restore financial support for the investments of the newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. these organisations are a powerful mechanism in the hands of producers when negotiating with other actors in the supply chain, but they are still unpopular, especially in newly acceded member states, such as my country bulgaria. the developments over the past year in relation to the russian embargo have clearly shown that the sector is sensitive and the measures envisaged by the european commission have proved to be grossly inadequate. i therefore call on the commission to commit adequate resources and direct aid to producers, rather than leaving millions of farmers without prospects and livelihoods. i also call on the commission to launch information campaigns aimed at presenting the attractiveness of the sector to young people as a livelihood opportunity. the current worrying trends of ageing and depopulation of rural, mountain and remote regions are a pressing problem and the commission needs to put in place practical efforts and make concrete proposals to overcome this trend.
in writing. - congratulations on the report, it looks like a lot of work has been done. i am pleased that some of the key issues in the sector have been clearly and forcefully addressed. i would point out that it is right that large retail chains create many problems for manufacturers. they harm competition and growth in the sector. and secondly, we need to think about more incentives to increase production. and this is especially true in south-eastern europe, whose producers have been hit hardest by the russian embargo, the practices of the big chains and the disparity in subsidies. for example, cherry growers in bulgaria are currently experiencing serious difficulties. i therefore call for solidarity and for consideration of mechanisms to support smes in the fruit and vegetable sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep's motion for a resolution on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform, as i believe that the association in the sector is the right step, which will provide producers with a better bargaining position with the trade chains and make them more competitive on the domestic and external markets, guaranteeing high quality of production. the extension of the russian embargo has contributed to the vulnerability of the sector. it is therefore of paramount importance to make producer organisations more attractive by reducing the administrative burden and creating additional incentives for farmers to associate. information campaigns on the benefits of association are needed, especially in countries where the degree of association is very low or almost non-existent, as is the case in some of the new member states, including bulgaria. the association in the sector will increase their strength in negotiating with the trade chains, which is a prerequisite for tackling unfair trade practices. producer organisations can give young farmers a strong start, especially in the first years of their activity when they are building their market position. last but not least, the association of producers will stimulate short supply chains in favour of the final consumer, who will be able to consume locally produced seasonal fruit and vegetables.
madam president, i believe that there is one overriding issue or characteristic to this report which should be clearly recognised, and this is that in fact it provides very strong impetus for responsible corporate governance. all the provisions having to do with shareholders’ and stakeholders’ rights, the necessity for clear reporting, both of remuneration and costs and profits, the country-by-country provision – all these are very well aimed at achieving a new quality of corporate governance which very much favours redirecting the behaviour, and the incentives for behaviour, of companies away from short-termism, from profiting unaccountably, into really serving the long-term interests of their stakeholders and society.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, on his comprehensive report because it represents a good basis for the trilogue. the general assessment of the presented budget for 2016 reveals that it abides by the previously-set priorities – employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship. while commitments are going down by 5.2%, real payments are calculated to increase by 1.6%. thus we expect to melt down the huge pile of backlogs and to reach a sustainable level by the end of 2016. in this regard, we appreciate the cooperation between the committee on budgets and commissioner georgieva in drafting the budget and in implementing the commission’s pledges at the beginning of this mandate. the budget supports the political priorities: the energy union; the digital single market; the european programme for education, training, sport and youth; increasing competitiveness; support for farmers; and, of course payments to efsi. the eu budget also responds to new developments in europe’s neighbourhood and beyond. while an increased budget will be available to tackle today’s immigration challenges, we should be very careful, because the increasing pressure of migration flows means that the level of the ceiling set in the mff could be outdated. at the same time, we should be aware that the above—mentioned increase in payment appropriations, taking into account inflation, reveals that there is almost no increase in real terms. this means that the overall weight of the eu budget remains more or less the same. furthermore, we must ask ourselves: is it appropriate to reduce, by 4%, the financial resources for economic, social and territorial cohesion when there is a growing division between regions and states within the union? generally, we support the main goals of the budget to boost innovation, create jobs, deal more effectively with migration and strengthen the global role of the european union. i believe that we will get the best positive result from the trilogue process as a whole.
mr. chairman, mrs. vice president, people outside this building are rarely interested in the budget sections, the interest rates, the percentages or the numbers in it. but what they are really interested in is the results. and i believe this is one of the first budgets to be based on results. today, we face four major challenges: the situation in greece, ukraine, north africa and the fragile economy. all four are duly reflected in this budget, for which i thank you, as well as mr fernandez's work. but there is something that i personally want to thank as a young person, actually the youngest in this parliament, and that is that erasmus+ has 30% more than last year, and horizon 2020 has 10 billion more than last year. i want us to continue in this direction and reflect the principle that we should be small for the small things and big for the big things. i wish we had more budgets like this. congratulations again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps symbolically today, ten years after the london bombings, we are having this conversation in the european parliament building. and while security should be and is a priority of sovereign nation states, the european commission has its obligations under the european security agenda. without a doubt, the greatest threat facing the european peoples today is islamist terror. the lack of reliable protection at the southern borders threatens the security of citizens of the european union. to the south of us is a growing menace, which has already borne its poisonous fruit in madrid, london, paris, lyon, copenhagen and many other european cities. the islamic terrorism that is growing in the south of us, supported, among others, by the government of the republic of turkey, threatens not only security, it threatens the identity, self-consciousness, culture and security of all european peoples. the european programme should be directed towards strengthening the southern borders of the european union. it is necessary to build and complete a protective structure on the bulgarian-turkish border. the trafficking of migrants, including islamic state fighters, across the black sea, which is inevitably being created, must be prevented in its infancy. the exchange of intelligence and cooperation within the european union needs to be strengthened in order to prevent the movement of terrorists within the borders of this european union. i should like to remind you that the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks in paris, london and madrid were citizens of their own countries, that is, european citizens. it is time for the european commission not only to declare security a priority, not only to hold continuous meetings, but also to put the measures listed in practice.
madam president, the challenges we have faced over the past year have made it clear that the threats to the internal security of the european union have become more complex and unconventional. they are increasingly difficult to predict and their management requires a common integrated approach by all member states, with a clear division of tasks between the european and national levels. the main reasons for high crime are: the increase in inequality, poverty, racial and xenophobic hatred, and these cannot be solved by security measures. they need to be considered in a broader context, and this includes social and employment policy as well as education. but also taking measures to reintegrate the most disadvantaged parts of our societies. in conclusion, i welcome the european security agenda for 2015-2020 proposed by the commission and the priorities set out therein. but i also want to stress that we must be prepared to face new challenges in the near future.
in writing. the european security agenda, adopted at the end of april, is an important step in ensuring european security over the next few years. it responds to ever-changing threats and offers flexible measures and solutions for a more secure europe. at the same time, the success of the programme depends mainly on how member states implement the proposed measures and how cooperation with the european institutions and the relevant agencies proceeds. it is therefore essential that the existing information exchange tools such as the schengen information system and the criminal records exchange system are used to the full by the relevant services. it is important to strengthen the coordinating role of agencies such as europol, especially in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the european parliament on the progress of the criminal investigation. in order to ensure the implementation of the security programme, i call on the european commission to draw up an action plan outlining what concrete steps will be taken when to implement the proposed measures. the european action plan should be complemented by plans from each member state, and synergies between actions at european and national level should be sought. it's the only way to make the strategy a reality.
in writing. according to eurostat data for may 2015, 23 348 million european citizens are unemployed. unemployment in the eu is close to 11%, with millions living on minimal financial resources. at the same time, there is a shortage of labour and skilled workers in a number of industries. i believe that against this background of the labour market, the european commission should develop a strategic vision and a forward-looking analysis of the needs of the european economy and labour market. we need to know what they will look like in the long term, so that we can focus our efforts on retraining and training specialists for precisely those sectors where they are really needed, and meet the demand and supply of the labour market, in order to improve overall economic growth and the living standards of european citizens.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, development aid is intended to reduce poverty while promoting human rights, strengthening democracy, good governance and the rule of law. the union contributes almost 60% of global official aid, but reducing poverty and inequality can be achieved by mobilising additional funds. in order to achieve these priorities, we must not forget the private sector as a key actor and its potential to contribute to effective and long-term development. in this regard, i support the council conclusion of 12 december 2014 on the need to strengthen the role of the private sector in the implementation of the future sustainable development goals. in conclusion, development policy cannot achieve its objectives on its own, but must be integrated into a wider framework that combines both foreign and trade policy and other external policy instruments. only then will development finance produce a long-term and sustainable result.
in writing. a few days ago, the russian federation decided to extend the embargo on imports of agricultural products from the eu. much of european agriculture is still suffering from this without adequate help from the commission, but only with calls from it to find new markets for its products. there are still no concrete measures proposed to help european farmers as a result of the extended embargo and this is unacceptable. i call on the luxembourg presidency to pay urgent attention to this problem and, in close cooperation with parliament, to propose intervention measures, particularly for the stone fruit sector such as cherries, and for the dairy sector. last year, a number of dairy products known on the russian market as bulgarian white salami cheese and cheesecake failed to benefit from the measures proposed by the ec because they did not cover these types of products. european farmers must not be allowed to fall victim to geopolitical decisions without adequate support and compensation.
mr. president, mr. tsipras, i speak to you as a friend and the only neighbor from an even poorer country, bulgaria, which has not spent 300 billion. the parties today are fighting for federalism, and the others for you, mr. tsipras. you're not the one to blame. the genesis of the problem is the irresponsibility of the euro-bureaucrats and the greek political class. bringing an unprepared greece into the eurozone is a crime against the greek people and the european taxpayers. mr. tsipras has played cat and mouse with merkel, but soon the cat will eat the mouse. you came humble today because the greek house burned down and someone's gonna have to put out the fire with a lot of money. now you're just going to leave the blackout to europe. but who's gonna pay for the greek experiment? it is not the eurozone, but the european union that is doomed without deep reform. colleagues, mr juncker, do not forget the poorest european citizens in bulgaria, who are even more heavily taxed than the poor and retired greeks. they will be the most innocent victims of the greek bankruptcy.
mr president, the negotiations must continue. that is the message of parliament. the greek referendum is a catharsis and from now on the decision is on the negotiating table and awaiting a compromise. the troika policy has failed. we socialists have been saying for the last five years that austerity policies lead to bankruptcy. we must move towards a new agreement and we must have a new philosophy: developing the economy and giving social guarantees to the citizens. we must show the greek people and the citizens of europe a new europe, a europe which defends their interests. that's our responsibility. the question is not whether to choose between the euro and the drachma, but the future of the european project. we want a europe which rejects two-speed development. we want a europe which rejects double standards and which does not divide the member states into those at the centre and those at the periphery. we believe in the european project, in solidarity, in the outstretched hand, when it is the citizens and not the financial institutions who have to make decisions. to reach an agreement together today will be a powerful signal that we so badly need in the current situation, where we are facing enormous challenges: the crisis, the influx of refugees, conflicts and terrorism.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, south of our borders, the arab world is facing unprecedented conflicts that have led to the rise of terrorism. from libya to syria, countries are literally disappearing. from paris to sousse, we are all victims of the brutality of terrorists. we are all targets - europeans, arabs, christians and muslims. terrorism is the greatest threat to our security and it must be neutralized. we must mobilize all available resources in the name of restoring stability and security to all conflict points. the challenges facing europe today force it to make an important choice, even a strategic one: to respond to the threat of terrorism. what we need is not self-closure and isolation, but more democracy and tolerance as the safeguards of a truly multicultural society.
madam president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2014 annual report clearly outlines the many human rights violations. this has been largely a consequence of the conflicts we face. despite the enormous difficulties, the european union remains committed to promoting respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. i call on us to continue to be a major player in promoting freedom of expression and to firmly oppose the death penalty. we need to use the diplomatic tools and international partners available to improve the human rights situation in many of the countries with which the european union cooperates. we must continue to support civil society activists who over the past year have faced increasing pressure from the authorities in many of their countries. these human rights defenders play an important role in promoting democracy.
madam president, commissioner, the wave of migration to europe is a more serious challenge for us than even the current instability in greece. in our immediate neighbourhood there are millions of people who see a way out of violence and misery by storming the european union border. the most important question we have to answer is how we can respond to this challenge and contribute to political stability in the countries of the middle east and north africa. such an answer is not easy, but it is of great interest to us. unfortunately, i believe that air and possibly ground operations against the extremist group "islamic state" must be made. but change has to come from within. of course, i agree with the colleagues who said: a solution must be found to the palestinian question. european countries should also improve cooperation by gathering and exchanging information both among themselves and with some of the governments in the region. religious communities should be encouraged to cooperate with one another. a good example is the 800 christian volunteers who two days ago joined the shiite militia to take part in the liberation of the iraqi city of mosul from the islamic state. the primary responsibility in combating fundamentalism should be on muslim communities and especially on their distinction from the misuse of religion by terrorists. improved coordination between the security services of the member states and those in the region, e.g. turkey, iraq, lebanon, should stop the flow of funds to the islamic state from the sale of illicit energy sources; and internet service providers and social platforms should identify those who want to join the islamic state and extremist propaganda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in the middle east and north africa is undoubtedly the most serious challenge to the security of the european nations. the collapse of a number of states in this region under the pressure of the organized arab uprisings poses at least two fatal threats to us. on the one hand, it's the huge wave of migration that's flooding the european continent, threatening to collapse the economies of european countries and forever change our continent demographically and culturally, religiously and otherwise, and in a direction that i don't agree with. on the other hand, the region's statelessness has become fertile ground for the development and rise of extremist salafi islamist organizations such as al shabaab, boko haram, al qaeda, islamic state and others. they all fight against us, against our traditions, customs, culture and values. they want to replace them with a caliphate. today, they're cutting off heads not just in iraq and syria, but in lyon, france. it's high time we took a responsible look at this threat. there is only one adequate response to this threat. it's not a statement and statements. he's a military man.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european neighbourhood policy, established in 2004, aims to prevent new dividing lines between the enlarged european union and its neighbouring countries. it is now the right time and place to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cocan, on his efforts and on the work he has done on this report. but unfortunately, we can say that's not what's happening right now. in the east and south of europe, there is a complete breakdown of the states, typical examples of this being libya, egypt, syria, iraq. there are new dividing lines that are being created where values are concerned. the christian values of the european nations, or european values, are being opposed by an increasingly aggressive and growing radical salafist islamism. and we cannot ignore the huge wave of migration that is sweeping greece, spain, italy and bulgaria. this wave of illegal immigrants will hamper economic prosperity and threaten the stability and security of member states. in the north-east we are seeing the same process: the state of ukraine is in a severe political, economic and humanitarian crisis. a new dividing line is being built on its territory, which takes us back to the cold war years. the same is true of georgia, armenia, moldova and the black sea basin in general. in this situation, i believe that the european union should rethink its neighbourhood policy. it is important that the union takes an active part and a role in the arab spring states and thus ensures both peace and prosperity for the member states of the european union and the neighbouring countries.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr cocan on the good result of his work on the report. the enormous challenges facing both the east and the south force us to rethink our neighbourhood policy. a new policy must take account of the changing threats in the region. unfortunately, not only are frozen conflicts like karabakh and abkhazia not resolved, but new and hot conflicts are being created, like crimea and eastern ukraine. alongside conventional military conflicts and terrorism, we are witnessing hybrid, information and propaganda wars, external funding of anti-european extremist political parties. such factors exploit our inner weaknesses. the european union is made up of democratic states that don't invest in propaganda, but that have the right to respond with the truth. countries like russia are using the economy and energy as a tool for pressure and dependency, not for mutually beneficial cooperation, which is what it should be. for example, the proposed expansion of nord stream and the discussed turkish and greek stream are creating political division within the european union. the aim is to create a conflict between brussels and the member states, as well as between the member states themselves and between companies and governments. unity makes strength, not division, and divide and rule should be our primary goal. we must firmly defend the rights of neighbouring countries to independently choose regional and international partnerships, to strengthen cooperation with governmental organisations, with the non-governmental sector in this region. we need to use all the tools available to support civil society, such as the new european endowment for democracy. i support the idea of informal meetings of foreign ministers from the region and from the european union, but i also think it is good to have meetings of interior ministers as well as of the security services. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. if i had the recipe, my dear colleague, i would tell you. you know, these are conflicts, some of them have been on the scene for decades, like in nagorno-karabakh. the minsk group is working unsatisfactorily, with no results, and we are trying to put forward our proposals to solve these problems. but they're not just not solved, they're increasing. i said that in addition to these conflicts, we have new ones, for example in crimea and eastern ukraine. there is no recipe. what we're trying to do is help, but it seems like we can't find the right way yet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the horrifying events of 20 years ago in srebrenica can be interpreted in many ways, but they should remind us of the most important thing: that the transition from totalitarianism to democratic civil societies in the balkans was marked by bloody ethnic conflicts. against this background, my country, the republic of bulgaria, has managed to carry out a bloodless transition, known in our country as the bulgarian ethnic model - one of the brightest stones on our path to membership in nato and the european union. the active role of the liberal party dps has refuted the expectations of many analysts that the first bloody ethnic war will happen in bulgaria because of the violent change of the names of bulgarian muslims. twenty years after the events in srebrenica and the tragedy of the bosnian muslims, it is clear what a difficult and painful path the balkans have travelled. the memory of the srebrenica tragedy reminds us that europe remains morally indebted to the western balkans. in two decades, the countries of this region have gone from being irreconcilable enemies to partners and allies in the euro-atlantic cause. they have the right to live in a true european multicultural union.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, honourable members of the commission, honourable members, in my capacity as shadow rapporteur, i would like to comment on the report by mrs reda on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. i would like to thank the colleagues with whom we have worked long and hard to produce what i believe is a well-balanced report. this fragile balance, the result of long talks and contradictions on many issues, which we have managed to achieve, is the result of long and difficult negotiations, and i hope that in today's vote we will be able to maintain what has been achieved so far. it is important to highlight the existing sensitive issues and to send what i believe is the right message to the european commission. i am confident that the report will provide a good basis for the commission's forthcoming review of the existing legal framework on copyright and related rights, which is expected by the end of this year. we need to ensure that the revision and modernisation of the legislation in place today strikes the right balance between the interests of consumers in the member states of the european union, but also protects the rights and legitimate interests of creators and copyright holders.
the biggest challenge to copyright in the 21st century is to strike a balance between the interests of consumers, authors, distributors and copyright holders. changes must be made carefully and after extensive consultation. every step forward, even a small one, reflects entire technological eras. adequate intellectual property rights are one of the factors for the fastest and most seamless transition to the new digital economic model. a model that does not divide countries into small and large, and gives equal opportunity to large companies as well as small and start-up companies. one of the greatest riches we have in europe is the products of our artists, and we all know that talent is not born in a straight line proportion only in the largest countries, but also in the smaller ones. the new rules in the digital single market should therefore give a voice to composers, artists, directors and architects from newer member states, such as bulgaria. i believe that by voting today we will make a strong case for the introduction of working and balanced rules for copyright on the internet.
mr president, i did not support the tpt report for two main reasons: my country is one of the few to be discriminated against by the us in terms of visa policy. the text we voted on calls only for political pressure on the united states on this issue, but without a concrete and clear recommendation for a fair solution and the abolition of visas for all european citizens before the eventual entry into force of the ttip. disproportion in this area means the possibility of constraining economic interests by the united states against my country bulgaria. the mechanism for investor-state dispute settlement is the other aspect that i do not approve of in the final adopted text. my country bulgaria is one of the few member states in the european union with such a mechanism, signed more than twenty years ago. it's time this humiliating instrument was removed. until that is achieved, i will not support a report that does not defend that position. i'm not gonna support a deal with those clauses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ttip report because: i want a solution that is in the interest of the citizens of the european union and that will strengthen our position globally. two, please. the new global economic challenges require us to support the idea of enhancing cooperation between the eu and the us through a trade agreement. our economies are the most open and democratic in the world, and we share many common values. 3.tip can serve as a model for high standards and for other fast-growing economies, but also to restore lost investor confidence. the number of patients is 4. in addition to its economic dimension, the agreement also has a strong geopolitical dimension. moreover, ttip has the potential to become the most significant project between europe and the us since the creation of nato to date. i think it's very important at this point to focus on the type of agreement.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the resolution on the ttip, the ep made its recommendations on the european commission's negotiating mandate, agreed by 14 of its committees. for us meps, the priority in the negotiations is to achieve a new dynamic in the european economy and to guarantee the opening of markets and access to capital for european businesses across the ocean, as well as the preservation of european standards in terms of competition, health, food quality, environmental and labour standards. the ep stands firmly behind the rights and interests of european citizens, as well as the right of states to define public policies at national and local level, to be protected and guaranteed. the european parliament has also expressed its support for the agreement, which is a step towards a more comprehensive and effective agreement on the eu's external borders. without a revision or even a repeal and replacement of the agreement with a new, much more transparent mechanism, the agreement cannot be adopted by the european parliament. i hope that this will be heard, because this resolution was supported by two-thirds of the colleagues who want this agreement to become part of the eu-us relationship. the revision of this mechanism is the only way to give this agreement a chance of achieving a historic common market.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the european parliament’s recommendations to the commission on the negotiations for ttip, which presents a more balanced account of the important advantages and opportunities offered by the agreement. the parliament’s recommendations reflect key arguments in support of ttip and its potential to unlock a billion-dollar market. this is particularly the case for countries like bulgaria, which, as part of the eu, will be able to play a greater role on the global trade market. for such countries, ttip also means enhanced mobility, recognition of professional qualifications on the foreign labour market and access to the us public procurement market, which is the largest in the world. we need to focus on these advantages and avoid equating the debate on ttip to a debate on the negative effects of globalisation. europe must be driver and a main beneficiary of these processes, instead of attempting to circumvent them, and ttip can aid us in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it is a purely technical solution. the reason for the need for such a vote was the accession of croatia to the eu and the need for certain amendments to the eu association documents of macedonia to reflect the change in the number of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of the republic of croatia to the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the republic of macedonia, but at the same time i hope that the european union will respond swiftly, effectively and authoritatively to the events in macedonia. i think it is timely, in the european year of development and in the context of the increasingly dynamic changes in the political environment globally, to review the european union's neighbourhood policy, including with regard to the western balkans. in our preparations for it, we have drawn on the general principles laid down in the union treaties, but we have also taken account of the current circumstances in the region. and we should always bear in mind that while enlargement policy and neighbourhood policy are separate policies with different objectives, they overlap to a large extent with those countries that have entered into membership negotiations, and this gives rise to the eu's increased responsibility towards them for maintaining the prospect of and aspiration for membership.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia because it is a purely technical solution. the reason for the need for such a vote was the accession of croatia to the eu and the need for certain amendments to the eu association documents of serbia to reflect the change in the number of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, because the results of the existing cooperation show good results for all the parties involved. that's why i voted to renew the treaty with india. by february 2014, 258 grants had been signed under eu research programmes. one of the major and important partnerships is that between the republic of india and the 'euroatom' agency. other areas of partnership are computer technology, solar energy, water challenges and agriculture. the total budget provided by the eu and india is eur 60 million. with the ep's support for the renewal of the agreement with india, we are continuing to develop scientific and technological cooperation, which is of paramount importance in the 21st century. sharing experiences is a path to further progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'yes' on the recommendation for cooperation between the eu and the faroe islands because i support the allocation of funds for scientific and technical programmes in the belief that in the 21st century this is one of the most strategic areas of development and as such is of paramount importance for the future. it is also important to partner and exchange experience with specialists from other countries, with whom we can develop and work on joint projects. through the support of the ep, we support the association of the islands to the framework programme for research and innovation horizon 2020. it is the largest eu framework programme in this field ever, with a seven-year budget of almost €80 billion. the majority of eu research funding is provided on the basis of calls for proposals on a competitive basis. by giving access to the faroe islands programme, we are extending the cooperation and creating the potential for more projects. the strategic location of the islands is a prerequisite for research in the field of water.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to the long-term sustainability of companies, create an attractive environment for shareholders and enhance cross-border voting to contribute to growth, job creation and eu competitiveness. however, the report also contains problematic topics such as the mandatory reporting requirement for all large and listed companies in each eu member state in which they are established. that is why i voted with an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the market stability reserve for the eu ets for a number of reasons. although i am a supporter of the idea of reducing greenhouse gases, this report puts forward concepts for the harmonisation of standards for all member states, without taking into account the specificities of some countries such as bulgaria. as a result of the adoption of this report, we may find ourselves in a situation where our country may become subject to sanctions because of the difficult eu requirements. unlike western european countries, bulgaria, as well as countries like romania, poland and the czech republic, have not had much experience in greenhouse gas trading. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the financial contribution from the hfsf to the hfsf. however, in the draft put to the vote, countries such as the united kingdom proposed to change the year to 2019 as they already have a ready-to-use. however, with this change in the starting date, bulgaria and a number of other countries will not be able to meet the requirements in time to start the full operation of the reserve. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ due to the lack of conformity of the final compromise text with the position of the country i represent, bulgaria, i voted against the change of the date of entry into force of the measure from 2021 to 2017. the date of entry into force of the ppa and the treatment of allowances in backlogging constitute the architecture of the structural change of the este. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiary of the aid. in its current form, the measure may lead to possible shocks on the greenhouse gas emission allowance auction market, which may also have an impact on the price range.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the agreed market stability reserve of the co2 emissions trading scheme before the current period of its operation has expired. the aim of the reform is to increase the price of emission allowances, and therefore directly increase the price of electricity from fossil fuels, from which most of the electricity comes. today, as we struggle to achieve growth and a more competitive economy, higher energy prices will undermine the efforts of economic recovery and the better position of european companies on the world market. i do not think it is justified to over-emphasise climate policies over growth policies when europe is neither the biggest emitter of co2 nor can climate targets be achieved without a global agreement and commitment from the biggest polluting countries. so i think that the european institutions are acting hastily with the reform of the emissions trading scheme, with their desire to generate financial resources from this trade earlier for investments in low-carbon technologies. although the agreement contains safeguards for the industry, it is unlikely that companies will be able to adapt to the new system without significant new costs and loss of competitiveness from the inevitable increase in the price of electricity.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i am always for when it comes to regulations and other documents that protect community producers from unfair competition, whether from companies inside or outside the community. i am particularly interested in the shipbuilding business, not only because bulgaria was a leader in it years ago, but also because europe is a major producer of ships, which is on the one hand an industry with enormous added value and on the other hand one that employs a very large number of workers. our main competitors, the united states and china, are far behind us in shipbuilding, you know, even european shipbuilders had to finish one of the great us cruise ships in the sea of america, and for that reason we have to protect our european manufacturers and help them in any way we can. that is why i support this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the enhanced participation of switzerland in important programmes such as horizon 2020 and other itre activities is a great step forward. switzerland is not only a key contributor to the european economy, it has also proven to be a valuable addition in terms of scientific and technological advances. cooperation will greatly add to improving innovation, skilled labour and other opportunities throughout member states
in writing. ‒ in principle i support the effort to improve employment guidelines by cutting red-tape and easing the burden on the private sector, often carried foremost by smaller- and medium-sized enterprises. nonetheless, i would rather see an improvement of current conditions such as streamlining wages, economic governance and the introduction of guaranteed minimum incomes. what we need are structural reforms that take into account the different realities encountered throughout the union. of special significance are barriers to growth and employment. however, these may not be overcome by over-regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request that finland has made on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund despite the fact that i fully support the measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into labour market.
in writing. ‒ in principle i welcome some of the changes introduced to the draft budget for 2016. nonetheless, there are still some considerable issues that remain to be addressed. it is, as the report rightfully reflects, important to recognize past under-budgeting and to note the importance of tackling this issue. however, we cannot simply recognise this fact and move on, so to speak. there are still fundamental structural challenges that require proper analysis and sound financial solutions. another concern is that we need to maintain a clear overview in terms of budgetary expenditure. it is a known issue that the distribution of funds is not always equal or financially justified, especially in the light of recent political activities in and around the union. thinking long-term strategy, in terms of budgetary efficiency, waste management and proper allocation of taxpayers’ money, it is crucial for maintaining a political equilibrium as well as ensuring economic longevity and productivity. without this, we will encounter serious difficulties.
in writing. in rural europe, the trends of depopulation and population ageing continue at an alarming rate. these areas have the potential to be a generator of jobs, of economic growth. i therefore believe that in 2016 the commission should allocate additional resources to programmes and initiatives that increase the attractiveness of rural and remote areas. i draw your attention to paragraph 4 of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development of 28.5.2015, in which we call on the commission to provide additional resources to promote organic farming and the quality schemes for geographical indications and traditionally specific foods. these schemes increase the potential for economic growth of remote regions by emphasising the specific qualities of unique agricultural products and by enhancing the attractiveness and identity of these areas. i therefore strongly believe that the commission should pay particular attention to these schemes and support them even more actively in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this initiative as i do not believe the solution lies in simply implementing new reforms and tackling challenges without a profound understanding of the implications these might hold for the labour market. i believe that we should focus primarily on thoroughly assessing the current challenges and potential opportunities and how these may be dealt with best. it is foremost a question of efficiently targeting the challenges the existing workforce is already experiencing and ensuring the correct matching of labour and opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and evasion as challenges in developing countries, as the report contains many recommendations to be taken into account at the forthcoming addis ababa conference on financing for development in july 2015. the report also discusses the tax systems of developing countries and the need to address existing problems such as corruption and non-transparent public administration.
in writing. – i voted for the adoption of this report as a stronger commitment by the eu member states to enhance transparency and cooperation would provide vital support for developing countries in the fight against tax dodging. this report urges the commission to support developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks, and urges that information on beneficial ownership of companies, trusts and other institutions be made publicly available in open-data formats. i believe that these are important steps and although this report is not a binding regulation, it is still very encouraging as it shows that it is possible to get cross-party support for tax justice issues.
in writing. ‒ in principle i welcome the resolution. however, there are still numerous insufficiencies. aside from the fact that i consider it to be of the utmost importance that we recognise the relationship between the efficient use of resources and minimizing waste, this report is still rather descriptive and prescriptive. i believe that we need concrete and realistic proposals, such as a focus on efficiency, innovation, and transparency, rather than new regulatory proposals and increased targets, for example. it is the case eu-wide that often the current situation is not properly assessed and an additional burden is imposed by creating higher burdens and challenges. if we want a proper functioning of the european internal market we must first of all understand what the actual context is and improve communication/coordination between the public and the private sectors, before adding additional and unnecessary red-tape, which is only detrimental to the well-being of our citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i fully agree it is crucial for the eu to start using resources more efficiently and reduce our resource dependency. saving natural resources will not only preserve raw materials for future generations but will create multiple benefits such as reducing waste and creating new innovative business opportunities. however, i call on the commission to take a more cautious stand when looking into creating a binding target to increase resource efficiency at eu level, since the principle of subsidiarity must be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or other case of radiological contamination. the main reason for this was that the text was to some extent at odds with the original idea of euratom being a separate and independent organisation that controlled the sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the construction of a capital markets union. the european commission published a green paper, a call for public debate, on the construction of a capital markets union, which launched a long-term project to integrate capital markets in the european union. the aim is to mobilise funding for the european economy through the capital markets and to boost growth rates in the 28 eu member states. however, the european parliament believes that the commission should develop a better approach to increasing the diversification of sources of finance and investment in enterprises. the commission should also not rely solely on peer reviews with other jurisdictions. finally, by supporting this resolution, we are sending a signal to the commission that differences between individual member states must be taken into account in order to avoid negative consequences. these are just some of the recommendations the ep made to the commission, but they are among the main reasons why i agreed and supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ supporting the integration of capital markets in europe is a logical step towards a pan-european financial policy, in line with commission directives and in view of recent developments in the union. due to the over-reliance of business on the banking sector, the eu needs integrated channels and diverse sources of business financing, secured by changes introduced by all member states. the launch of such a long-term project gives a clear signal of the european parliament's commitment to small and medium-sized businesses in europe and to a better investment climate in the eu in general. the unification of capital markets will help to promote small and medium-sized businesses by facilitating access to initial investment and job creation in key and underdeveloped sectors of the economy - a boost that europe needs. the advantage of such a structure would be to stimulate innovation as a highly competitive instrument in the international market and to develop highly specialised sectors of the real economy in europe. for me, the most important thing is that, without a doubt, the measures to introduce unified capital markets will have a favourable effect on foreign investment and the business climate in bulgaria. a pan-european capital markets union is certainly a necessary and right step in further economic integration of the continent.
in writing. – i welcome the commission’s efforts for the creation of a true single market for capital, which would make it easier to channel available savings into the productive economy, enhance the funding sources for smes and break down barriers for investment across borders. the building of a true single market for capital – a capital markets union for all 28 member states – will unlock investment in europe’s companies and infrastructure. a capital markets union will have beneficial effects especially for smaller member states like bulgaria, where businesses remain heavily reliant on banks for funding. i fully agree that the capital markets union will give more financing options first of all to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and strengthen investment for the long term. therefore i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ by supporting the resolution on the situation in yemen, i express my deep concern about what is happening not only in yemen but in the whole region. the crisis in yemen is an additional threat to the security of the somali peninsula, the red sea region and the middle east as a whole. the first thing to be taken into account is the humanitarian aspect of what is happening in yemen. as a result of fighting between different military factions, as well as bombings, access to basic services for citizens has been disrupted. with the deepening humanitarian crisis, one of the most affected groups in this situation are children. unfortunately, the un's attempts to deal with the situation have been rather unsuccessful. although i support the eu's position on a political solution to the conflict, i remain sceptical that such a solution is possible. yemen's strategic position between africa, the middle east and asia makes it particularly attractive to terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda. i hope that by adopting the resolution on the situation in yemen, we will draw the attention of both the european and the international community to what is happening there and the dangers it poses to the whole world.
in writing. after peace talks in geneva ended without agreement on a ceasefire, yemen is plagued by growing tensions in an already unstable region. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in yemen, which calls strongly on all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the use of violence. in the resolution we insist that the un-led negotiations be led by yemen in order to reach a political solution that is consensual and inclusive. we also recall the heavy toll paid by the yemeni civilian population, deprived of running water and basic and emergency health care, and we call for a humanitarian truce to allow the delivery, including by sea, of vital humanitarian aid. finally, we strongly condemn the recruitment of children, which, far from being a marginal or temporary phenomenon, is a widespread practice throughout the world and which requires awareness and concerted action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the peillon report because it provides a detailed analysis of the challenges to security and political stability in the countries of the region, and it places particular emphasis on the key to a lasting solution: a comprehensive strategy for building democratic states and for human rights. the deteriorating situation in the middle east and north africa region poses challenges not only for the countries of the region but also for the european union. the report has the merit of emphasising three key elements: freedom of religion and the rights of religious minorities, the importance of developing direct dialogue and cooperation with civil society and, finally, the central and strengthened role that the union should take for the mediterranean. finally, the report also focuses on the building of a shared area of security and stability, which also involves joint energy infrastructure projects and investments in job creation, particularly for young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kukan report because it proposes a strategic vision for the revision of the european neighbourhood policy. the enp is an instrument of the union with great potential, but which must now gain political strength and flexibility to meet the challenges facing the european union in its eastern neighbourhood, as well as in the mediterranean. the report has the merit of emphasising a long-term strategic vision, but also a capacity to better anticipate crises and manage emergencies. the european parliament's major contribution to the revision of the enp is arguably its emphasis on democracy and respect for human rights as a priority in differentiated relations with neighbouring countries. the report also gives a strong emphasis to regional integration as a tool for stabilising the neighbourhood, with particular reference to the role of the union for the mediterranean, which, as a forum for dialogue, should allow for a better appropriation of projects under the enp. finally, the visibility and comprehensibility of the enp in the eu and in neighbouring countries is identified as a key objective for the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because the european neighbourhood policy is of paramount importance to the eu and the riga summit showed that the 28 member states are able to take joint decisions. the eu's neighbourhood is constantly changing, with a growing number of old and emerging challenges, and this requires us to take action. it is now clear that ukraine, georgia and moldova want to engage even more closely with the eu and we need to deepen our cooperation with them in all areas. the report clearly underlines the need to seek a strategic partnership with the other eastern partnership countries and gives direction for a more active eu involvement in resolving frozen conflicts in neighbouring countries. on the other hand, events in the region over the past few years have shown that the european neighbourhood policy is not able to respond adequately and in a timely manner to rapidly changing circumstances. this requires a fair and efficient allocation of resources between the south east partnership. it requires a conceptual separation into two dimensions that can evolve in their own direction. only then will the objectives of the enp be achieved.
eva paunova (ppe),in writing. – as the epp group’s rapporteur for the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society in the internal market and consumer protection committee, i am happy to see that the final text reflects the epp position and provides a more balanced account. this report does not include any compulsory legislative parameters, but is seen as a harbinger for the direction of future legislation. our aim is to strike a balance between the interests of service users, distributors and copyright holders. this would also enable a quick and seamless transition to the new digital economic model. a harmonized approach to copyright in all 28 member states will overcome divisions between large and small, central and peripheral countries, giving artists an equal chance to develop their ideas and promote their products.
in writing. the situation in burundi is extremely worrying and presents very serious human, regional and international risks. that is why i voted in favour of the joint resolution, which clearly sets out the priorities to be implemented in order to achieve a normalisation of the situation. the burundian stakeholders must return to the negotiating table as soon as possible to find a political solution through dialogue and put an end to the violence. nevertheless, a negotiated and consensual solution cannot be too far removed from the constitution and the spirit of the arusha accords. i welcome the clear and constructive positions and the mediation efforts of the eca and the au. i also support the call for the application of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, since the violations of democratic principles and human rights continue. finally, i would like to stress the regional issue of the burundi crisis. beyond the humanitarian situation of the refugee flows, it is crucial that a close dialogue between the countries of the region is maintained to avoid contagion in a politically and security-sensitive region, as the electoral processes are taking place in several of these countries.
mr president, shame on the so-called international community for allowing the 'islamic state' tumour to grow before our eyes and for its various metastases to lead to an unprecedented wave of migration towards europe's borders. these barbarians have lost their right to be part of the human community. the so-called "civilized world" has left syria and the surrounding countries between plague and cholera, between the assad regime and the islamic state. now in europe, we're trying to deal with the symptoms -- millions of refugees. we are reeling between european solidarity and national egoism. i call for immediate coordinated action by all parties, first of all the european union, the united states, russia, iran, the arab countries. this is no time for geopolitical games and propaganda with mutual accusations. we must help, we must restore statehood and security in this region, every delay leads to thousands more refugees coming to our sea and land borders. the time for talk is over. if the civilized world does not act now, we will face even more difficult times in the future.
madam chairman, i believe that the best pr this institution can do is the results it achieves. nothing speaks better than the results we achieve together here and i believe that what mr. sarwama is doing is exactly such a result because the 2007-2013 programming period has taught us something very important and that is that long procedures, many documents, long queues do not help us. if i could sum up my hundreds of meetings with beneficiaries of european funds in a few words, they would be: we need to dramatically reduce the time from filing to actually paying out the funds; we need to base risk controls on those who are doing well being checked less, those who are doing poorly being checked more. we need to get away from paper and use as many electronic services as possible so that people don't have to wait in line and can submit their documents from home with less waiting. i believe that with all this we can only optimise the management and control of european projects.
in writing. europe can become a unique ecosystem of innovative enterprises if we jointly implement successful models to support entrepreneurs in all member states. family businesses represent a long-term view of growth prospects and are a stable factor in job creation. they can play an important role in encouraging more citizens to be active participants in local economies. this is a result of the high degree of social responsibility that these enterprises have towards their employees. unfortunately, family businesses are not developing uniformly in all eu member states. this requires equal opportunities for entrepreneurs across europe. europe needs synchronised rules and policies that create certainty for businesses, encourage innovation and help start-ups to grow nationally and internationally.
madam president, i believe that the key words in this report are three: first, education, because business acumen is a quality that must be built from an early age. the number of young entrepreneurs and business leaders could be multiplied if the education system fosters innovative, creative and critical thinking. the second word is digitalization, because digital skills are essential for the realization of every entrepreneur and young person. they improve their access to sustainable jobs, help them to be self-employed and teach them to better understand the needs of their future employers. and the third word is business, because big corporations can help small companies and new projects with know-how and experience, and we here, our job is to create the most appropriate environment for entrepreneurship to flourish. it is therefore absolutely essential that work experience, entrepreneurship training and programming be part of any training from an early age in all european countries.
in writing.– i would like to express my support for the report on ‘promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training’. i am convinced that in order to promote youth entrepreneurship, we should start from education. investing in all levels of education, in training and in developing transversal and soft skills is essential, because being entrepreneurial requires acquisition of different skills – not just to start a business, but also to plan it, run it and develop it. being entrepreneurial also helps us achieve sustainable employment and reveal our full potential. entrepreneurial education develops a sense of initiative which will help young people with their own initiatives and their everyday life – not only for their companies and associations. i do realise that youth entrepreneurship cannot completely solve the youth unemployment problem, but it is definitely one of the solutions, especially acknowledging that having an entrepreneurial mind-set is highly beneficial for the development of the creative sector, something that europe very much needs in order to get back to growth and strengthen europe’s competitiveness. to encourage, help and support youth entrepreneurship we need a sustainable approach – we cannot achieve that with a single instrument. it requires sustainable, purposeful, long-term actions. i am happy that in this report we managed to set our clear direction.
in writing. believing in young people and their potential makes me an advocate of the idea of youth employment through entrepreneurship. if you want to fly an airplane, you can't do it in a classroom by reading a textbook. it takes many hours of hard work and hands-on training. similarly, to become an entrepreneur and to go from an idea to a successful product, you have to rely on practical experience and learn from the best entrepreneurs. and since young people value concrete proposals, not just words, i have two ideas: first, why not turn erasmus for young entrepreneurs into a global programme that opens up opportunities beyond the eu's borders. let our young entrepreneurs learn from the best and bring this model here to europe. second, to end unpaid internships in europe. traineeships, internships and training are a shortcut to gaining experience, but around 50% of the traineeships offered in the eu are unpaid. it's discrimination. if you can't afford it, you don't have an internship. often unpaid or low-paid interns have responsibilities equal to employees, and any work must be paid for. let us show young people that europe means acting in their interests and that is what is expected of us in this room.
madam president, i support the proposal by the co-rapporteurs for a total ban on the cloning of all types of animals for agricultural purposes. scientific observations have so far shown that cloning has a disproportionately low success rate and that the whole process carries a number of risks for both the offspring and the surrogate mothers involved. but beyond animal health, we here, directly elected by european citizens, must listen to their voices and attitudes. the majority of europeans are opposed to this kind of reproduction and we are obliged to surrender their will. the effective ban on the import of cloned animals and their products is a step in the right direction in the negotiations for an international agreement such as the ttip. we must not allow products on the european market which undermine the confidence of our citizens in the quality of european agricultural products. the cloning of farm animals and the import of products thereof should be explicitly included as not admissible for import into the european union during these negotiations.
in writing. i welcome the report on the approval of the directive on the cloning of animals for farming purposes, because the ep has once again maintained its strong position that it does not support the technique of cloning farmed animals. the future of european livestock production should be based on traditional breeding and selection methods in order to preserve animal health and to strengthen consumer confidence in the quality of animal products. i support the ban on the cloning of farm animals and the placing on the market of cloned animals and embryos, and the proposal by the two committees of the ep to extend the scope of the ban to include the offspring of cloned animals, germinal products and food derived from cloned animals and their offspring. the ep's position responds to european citizens' concerns about animal welfare and strengthens consumer confidence about the origin of the food they consume. compliance with the ban on cloning should be ensured by introducing a system of traceability and control of imports of animals and animal products from third countries, in particular with regard to countries applying the cloning technique. i support the adoption of special import conditions to ensure that import certificates contain the necessary traceability information.
efficient public administration is a process comparable to open innovation. each stakeholder can contribute to its development with expertise, experience and ideas. the process is endless, but that shouldn't affect the motivation of the participants to succeed. effective administration is also one of the most visible and definitive signals of a stable governance of a country. optimizing systems is a really long and complex process. i am very happy to say that i come from the country i know best - bulgaria. we are boldly continuing to take steps in the right direction towards building electronic governance. it is indeed important that civil society, business and the public sector work together to give business a chance to operate successfully beyond the borders of the union. this really can't happen without a well-functioning administration that provides information about what it's doing for citizens and businesses. to save time and money, we need electronically operated institutions and customs whose successes are tangible. we should not be passive players in the e-governance process, because it is important to be active participants and to benefit from its services. it is important and necessary to be open to the changes that are already happening in order to be better prepared for those that are coming and that are really unpredictable at the moment. innovation is moving our world forward and bringing us closer and closer to the future. the public administration and customs, when they are efficient, can therefore become the engine of the new digital economic model in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on ensuring the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation, as i consider that optimising systems, using innovation and exchanging information and expertise between member states' administrations are the best ways to combat smuggling and customs fraud. new technologies are moving our world forward and we need to maximise the involvement of our public administrations and customs in them, so that they work more efficiently and are more accessible and transparent to european citizens. the bulgarian national administration is already moving in this right direction and i hope that the eu will support and facilitate the completion of this much needed process.
in writing. i supported the report on the seal products trade because it prohibits the commercial killing of seals, thereby protecting their population and reducing the cruelty inflicted on these endangered animals. i appreciate the fact that the european provisions are aligned with those of the wto, which means that the eu is fulfilling its international obligations. i agree with the compromise reached with the inuit community and i find it fair, because i do not believe it is in our power to uproot a thousand-year-old tradition and take away the basic livelihood of the indigenous people when we are absolutely aware that their goals are non-commercial.
in writing. ‒ the report on the state of fundamental rights in the eu in 2013 and 2014 is particularly important as it represents another small step in ensuring the principles of the rule of law, equality, respect for fundamental rights, including the rights of minorities, which unfortunately are not equally protected in all countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep motion for a resolution on the protection of the eu's financial interests in the cap, as i believe that simplifying the cap should go hand in hand with optimising agricultural control policy. a less bureaucratic cap will result in a lower error rate in its implementation and hence in fewer financial penalties for farmers. in addition, payments for projects should not be interrupted when minor or technical errors are detected. digitisation of the application process as part of the simplification of the cap, as well as the creation of a 'single farm file' with crop data, will reduce errors already in the submission of applications. this requires investment in broadband networks in rural areas and consumer training programmes, especially for older farmers. i support the idea of implementing a single audit of the cap within the same year. the integrated approach to carrying out checks will reduce the administrative and financial burden on farmers by reducing the number of on-the-spot visits and better coordinating control activities by audit bodies. this will save the european taxpayer a considerable amount of money, given that the cost of checks amounts to eur 4 billion per year.
in writing. family businesses are the backbone of the european union's economy and are the economic entities that create almost half of private sector jobs. i supported this report because it clearly reflects my priorities and those of my colleagues in the european people's party. measures to improve lending to small businesses, provide staff training, encourage innovation and remove administrative and tax barriers. i believe that the european parliament should be united in taking the measures to support family businesses that the report specifically sets out to create a unique ecosystem of thriving businesses in all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues in the european parliament and i are convinced of the potential of the blue economy to generate growth and development, even taking into account its current problems. that is why we voted in favour of the resolution in favour of a single strategy to consolidate the leading role of the blue sector within the union. the blue economy should focus on sustainable economic activities that create jobs and contribute to overcoming the asymmetries between the different european regions. at the same time, however, i am strongly opposed to the possibility that the focus on the blue economy could serve as a pretext for unsustainable exploitation of our water resources. on the other hand, i am convinced that the specific problems that exist can be overcome through more active intergovernmental cooperation, better governance at eu level and a common focus on research and innovation as a way of expanding the opportunities for exploiting the blue potential and overcoming the negative trends towards the deterioration of water resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on unlocking the potential of research and development in the blue economy for job creation and growth. the blue economy is a hugely important part of the european economy and we need to make the most of the huge capacity it offers. it is our duty to responsibly manage and protect our natural resources, such as europe's oceans, seas and coastal areas, and to develop sustainably the potential of the many economic sectors they offer. innovation is what drives our world forward, and i believe that public funding of new technology and research is the most appropriate tool to promote growth. the report is important to me because the country i represent has such a huge resource - the black sea border - that it can be used even more efficiently and sustainably to create more jobs for bulgarian citizens and open up new opportunities for development in both our national and international economy.
mr president, i share the view that the gap between education, training and the labour market is one of the main reasons for the high levels of youth unemployment in europe. to combat this anomaly, it is necessary first of all to provide young people with the skills they so badly need, such as entrepreneurship, which will help them to develop fully in a professional and personal way. we must not forget that entrepreneurship is the backbone of the european economy. it has the potential to create jobs and growth and boost competitiveness. this is why it is vital to support young people who want to start their own projects but encounter a number of obstacles along the way. entrepreneurship training should be accessible to all, because the entrepreneurial spirit and attitude can be developed in everyone. it is our duty to provide a suitable learning environment that develops the skills and talents of young people.
in writing. the topics of youth entrepreneurship and education linked to business needs are a priority in my work. in order to have a europe that is prepared and prosperous for the next generation, young people need to be educated from an early age in critical and innovative thinking, entrepreneurship and business acumen, digital and management skills. promoting youth entrepreneurship is an effective way of tackling the worrying situation of youth unemployment in the european union. i voted in favour of the excellent report by mrs šojdrová because it is in line with my vision on the subject and i am convinced that the measures it proposes will help to increase the number of young entrepreneurs, which in turn will inevitably reduce the serious rate of youth unemployment in the european union.
mr president, europe's cultural heritage contains enormous economic and strategic potential. the fact that europe is one of the world's major tourist destinations, attracting millions of tourists every year, is proof of this. i am of the opinion that we should stimulate the potential of the european cultural routes of the council of europe, because this will help to develop sustainable cultural tourism. at the same time, we have to deal with a number of challenges in the sector. one is the gradual disappearance of traditional skills and crafts. they are part of our identity and an essential element of europe's cultural heritage. it is our duty to preserve them and pass them on to future generations. in this spirit, i believe it is extremely important to increase awareness of our tangible and intangible cultural heritage, which is often linked to regional and local culture. in this context, i call on the commission to continue to support the cultural and creative industries and to establish and organise a european year of cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution endorsing a significant part of the measures set out in the specific report of the committee on culture and reaffirmed the importance of the overall concept of the report. the ep is aware of the importance of cultural heritage as a valuable reference point, a means of individual and collective identification, and as a catalyst for economic progress. i myself consider that the proper use of available resources to support, enhance and promote the preservation of europe's cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated approach is a task of paramount importance. such an approach is not only necessary for achieving sustainable cultural dialogue and mutual understanding, but is also a prerequisite for enhanced social, economic and territorial cohesion. moreover, it can lead to the creation of a single european cultural area without compromising the integrity and specificity of individual national identities. meps strongly support the idea of creating a single eu portal dedicated to tangible and intangible heritage, which would bring together information on the status, funding opportunities and existing policies in the specific area. we also welcome the initiative to designate a european year of cultural heritage, which would undoubtedly contribute to the promotion and more responsible treatment of historic cultural monuments.
in writing. i am proud of the great cultural heritage that bulgaria and europe possess, and i consider it my duty to honour, protect and develop it. the cultural heritage of europe is of fundamental importance. it is at the heart of our european identity. cultural heritage, besides being a testimony to europe's glorious history, is an excellent tool for economic and social development and for creating many new jobs. i voted for the report on the integrated approach to cultural heritage because it covers all aspects affecting cultural heritage. i warmly welcome the proposal to create a common european portal dedicated to tangible and intangible cultural heritage and i believe that funding for cultural heritage should be increased, because investing in the past will create many key and long-term dividends in economic, social and foreign policy terms.
member of the commission.– madam president, today’s debate is very timely. it concerns the positive opinion of parliament on the first emergency relocation mechanism. however, as members know, the commission is adopting a new package on migration which will be officially presented to them tomorrow. as i have repeatedly said, both i personally and this commission are committed to accelerating and enhancing our actions to face the migratory challenge, which is a european one. the proposal for the emergency relocation of persons in clear need of international protection from italy and greece is an important part of the measures we are already putting in place to address this unprecedented situation. therefore, allow me to express my appreciation to our rapporteur, who has led the discussions on this complex file in a very constructive and engaging manner. the aim of this proposal is twofold: to relieve the pressure on italy and greece and to ensure the dignified treatment of the persons concerned. the commission welcomes the approach parliament proposes to take. the interests of the applicants should, as much as possible, match those of the member states. the system has to be implemented in such a way as to create a win-win situation and to prevent secondary movements. this is why, in deciding which member state an applicant should be relocated to, specific account should be taken of the qualifications and characteristics of the applicant, such as language skills and other individual indications based on family, culture or social ties which could facilitate their integration. at the same time, our aim is to have something as simple and efficient as possible in order to ensure that these persons can be relocated as quickly as possible. this will ensure the proper protection of the applicants concerned while alleviating the burden on italy and greece. the commission shares the concerns of parliament when it comes to vulnerable persons. it is foreseen that they should be the priority in the implementation of the scheme. the special needs of asylum applicants, including their health, should be of primary concern, and the best interests of the child should always be a primary consideration. as you are aware, the council reached a general approach in our proposal in july. member states, in general, made considerable efforts to show solidarity and agreed to the relocation of 40 000 persons over two years and, as a first step, to the relocation of 32 256 persons. i am confident that the member states will update their figures by the end of this year so as to reach 40 000, in line with the commitment that they have taken. the discussions in the council confirmed that this remains a very challenging topic, but we should be able to feel proud as soon as the results are achieved. the refugee crisis is a reality and no one can pretend that it does not concern us all. such results would not have been thinkable only a few months ago. indeed, it is the first time that member states have collectively – and not just bilaterally – agreed to relocate persons in clear need of international protection. it is now of utmost importance that we proceed quickly to the implementation of the scheme, including by the establishment of the hotspots. i am personally engaged in assuring an accelerated and effective rollout of the hotspots as soon as possible, and certainly before the decision enters into force. the hotspot approach is not only necessary for the implementation of the relocation decision but is, more importantly, a key measure of solidarity vis—à—vis the most affected member states that rely on the coherent mobilisation of european agencies. the european asylum support office (easo) will provide support in the processing of asylum applications and the registration of migrants. frontex will help with the return process, while europol and eurojust will assist in the investigation of criminal networks. it is crucial that we provide holistic support to member states under pressure and ensure ownership and build trust with other member states. the first hotspots have already been set up in sicily, lampedusa and taranto. one more is going to be set up within the next few days in piraeus in greece. a workshop organised by the commission, together with easo, for the member states on relocation and resettlement will take place on 1 october. the third relocation and resettlement forum will also take place this autumn to continue the discussion on the technical modalities. we can all agree that the recent developments – unprecedented arrivals of migrants and asylum applicants – will require further action. members have clearly called for a permanent relocation mechanism based on a distribution key. parliament will this time be co-legislator on the file and i look forward to your engagement. this proposal will already build on many of the ideas put forward by this house during its debates on relocation. in this respect, i would like to thank you for your valuable contribution. let me underline that, more than ever, we need to work in a comprehensive way as there is no single solution. the commission will continue and speed up the implementation of all the aspects of this common challenge, as set out in the agenda on migration. i wish to thank members very much for their attention and am ready to take note of their remarks and answer their questions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the events of the past few months have shown that we cannot make a policy for the mediterranean alone. the migratory pressure on land borders is enormous. the measures taken by the commission are no longer up to date. the debate is no longer about the numbers of relocation because they change from day to day. the dublin regulation is no longer working, commissioner. some member states at the external borders have stopped registering migrants because they no longer have the means or resources. the permanent and binding mechanism is more than necessary. the commission must propose it and the council must adopt it in the name of european solidarity. unfortunately, the council seat is currently vacant. it is appropriate to provide some relief to member states at the external borders and to confer on them a special status. they are the ones who welcome the majority of migrants. the hot spots must be made operational as soon as possible. we need a common strategy and measures to dismantle the trafficking networks. none of these measures can be effectively implemented if europe does not actively participate in the resolution of conflicts in third countries. europe must reassess its position as a world leader. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. in recent days, some european politicians, including mr sarkozy, have proposed that border countries, including my country bulgaria, become a sort of european health zone and accept refugees only there. if you ask me this question, you either agree with this policy, or you don't know european law, because it makes a clear distinction between refugees on the one hand, and economic immigrants on the other. we're talking about refugee policy, and i'm asking you to read the laws carefully.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by telling you that you are right. as i said in the beginning, the relocation scheme is only one part of the comprehensive approach as described in the agenda of migration. ms sargentini, ms wikström, this house has always had a very strong opinion about solidarity in practice. we agree. i agree with you, and we are working towards the same goal. you have mentioned the council; allow me to be optimistic and confident that the member states will soon take brave decisions. the challenge we are facing requires it. mr díaz de mera, this house – the european parliament – will be co-legislator for the permanent relocation mechanism. even concerning the emergency mechanism, which – as the name itself reveals – had to be adopted urgently, the commission did take the opinions expressed by parliament into account. i am grateful both for the suggestions and for the support of this house. many of you have referred to the need to revise the dublin regulations. i would like to stress that many of the measures that the commission is proposing recognise in practice the need to act above what dublin foresees. regarding its possible revision, as i promised at the very beginning, a thorough assessment will be done in the course of 2016. then we will decide the route to follow, the way ahead. mr deprez, would you agree? indeed, easo and liaison officers from different member states will be fully involved in the selection procedure. let me remind you that migration will be the main point of president juncker’s state of the union speech tomorrow morning, after which we will continue our discussion in detail. allow me now to switch to greek, since i was asked by some greek deputies about the situation in greece. ms spinelli asked me a question about the financing. μέσα σε σύντομο χρονικό διάστημα η κυβέρνηση, δια στόματος πρωθυπουργού, δεσμεύτηκε ότι θα προχωρήσει με γρήγορους ρυθμούς τις απαραίτητες διαδικασίες. με ικανοποίηση σας γνωστοποιώ ότι αυτές ολοκληρώθηκαν. η ελλάδα διόρισε την διαχειριστική αρχή που είναι αρμόδια για τη διαχείριση των κονδυλίων. γνωρίζετε από την εμπειρία σας ότι, όταν διατίθενται χρήματα σε μια χώρα, πρέπει να υπάρχει μία διαχειριστική αρχή. αυτή μας γνωστοποιήθηκε μόλις σήμερα. ζήτησε επίσης η ελλάδα έκτακτη χρηματοδότηση για την κάλυψη άμεσων αναγκών και η χρηματοδότηση αυτή ξεκινά άμεσα. η ελλάδα επισπεύδει επίσης την έναρξη της λειτουργίας του hot-spot στον πειραιά, από όπου οι εμπειρογνώμονες θα σπεύδουν σε εκείνα τα νησιά όπου απαιτείται ενίσχυση. στα δε νησιά που είναι βασικές πύλες εισόδου εγκαθίστανται χώροι υποδοχής. επίσης, ζήτησε η ελλάδα την ενεργοποίηση του μηχανισμού πολιτικής προστασίας. επαναλαμβάνω ότι πρόκειται για προαπαιτούμενα, όχι μόνο για την ελλάδα αλλά για όποια χώρα χρειάζεται τη βοήθεια της ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης. θέλω με την ευκαιρία αυτή να σας πω ότι στο μεγάλο και σημαντικό αυτό ζήτημα, πρωτόγνωρων διαστάσεων, το οποίο αποτελεί ίσως τη μεγαλύτερη κρίση που αντιμετωπίσαμε από τον δεύτερο παγκόσμιο πόλεμο και έπειτα, η ευρώπη δεν έμεινε απαθής. από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή, όπως ίσως θυμόσαστε όσοι είστε μέλη των επιτροπών με τις οποίες είχα την τιμή να συνεργαστώ στο ξεκίνημα της θητείας μου, αναλάβαμε δεσμεύσεις και σε χρόνο-ρεκόρ για τα ευρωπαϊκά δεδομένα η επιτροπή ολοκλήρωσε τη δουλειά της και κατέθεσε τη νέα ευρωπαϊκή ατζέντα για τη μετανάστευση. εναπόκειται στα κράτη μέλη να την εφαρμόσουν. σήμερα, κατά τη διάρκεια της συζήτησης, ακούστηκαν πολλά για την ευθύνη των κρατών μελών. η νέα ατζέντα για τη μετανάστευση είναι το πλαίσιο. όπως σας είπα πριν από λίγο, είναι θέμα ωρών για να πληροφορηθείτε σχετικά με ένα νέο πακέτο, πέραν εκείνων που ήδη γνωρίζετε, και αναφέρομαι και στα δέκα σημεία του σχεδίου δράσεως που είχαμε υιοθετήσει και ανακοινώσει πριν από λίγο καιρό. παίρνοντας πρωτοβουλία, κινηθήκαμε γρήγορα μπροστά αλλά μας πρόλαβαν, είναι αλήθεια, αυτές οι δραματικές εξελίξεις που επιτάχυναν τα γεγονότα. τούτη την ώρα όμως, πρέπει όλοι να αποδείξουμε στην πράξη και την αλληλεγγύη και την υπευθυνότητα μας - δύο βασικές αρχές που διέπουν τη λειτουργία της ένωσης. η αλληλεγγύη δεν είναι μόνο μια ηθική έννοια· είναι και νομική έννοια. είναι μια έννοια που καθορίζει από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή την εσωτερική μας λειτουργία και υπάρχει κατοχυρωμένη στη συνθήκη. πρέπει να το αποδείξουμε αυτό στην πράξη: αλληλεγγύη μεταξύ μας, υπευθυνότητα των κρατών μελών αλλά και αλληλεγγύη προς εκείνους τους άτυχους ανθρώπους που, στην προσπάθειά τους να ξεφύγουν από τον πόλεμο, την καταστροφή τον εμφύλιο, τους διωγμούς, επέλεξαν ένα πολύ δύσκολο και επικίνδυνο και, σε πολλές περιπτώσεις, θανάσιμο ταξίδι για να προσεγγίσουν τη δική μας μεγάλη χώρα, την ευρώπη. εμείς θα συνεχίσουμε σε μία κατεύθυνση, σε αυτή την πορεία προς την αντιμετώπιση της κρίσης, η οποία δυστυχώς δεν θα λυθεί μέσα σε μία βραδιά, αλλά θα απαιτήσει πολλές προσπάθειες επί πολλά χρόνια ίσως. θα συνεργαστούμε. δεν κρύβω ότι προσωπικά είμαι ευγνώμων στο ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο διότι από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή στήριξε αυτή την πολιτική, αποδεικνύοντας στην πράξη την ευαισθησία του για την ανθρωπιστική διάσταση του όλου ζητήματος αλλά και την υπευθυνότητά του, για να μας οδηγήσει - μέσα από το διάλογο - στο να πάρουμε τις σωστές αποφάσεις. σας ευχαριστώ και πάλι κυρία keller για την εξαίρετη εισήγησή σας ως προς την αντιμετώπιση αυτού του σημαντικού ζητήματος.
in writing. mr president, commissioner mogherini, i am strongly opposed to the mandatory nature of quotas and the allocation of refugees on a quota basis. this policy directly infringes the sovereignty of each eu member state to control its own borders and decide which people it can let into its territory and which it cannot. the commission's proposal is hypocritical because by deciding which country to send this refugee to and which to send to that country, they are discriminating against themselves. living standards vary greatly between member states, and i don't think you can force a refugee to stay in bulgaria, hungary or romania. the current approach is wrong, because in practice the eu cannot yet clearly distinguish economic migrants from genuine refugees. last summer we were talking about 40,000 refugees, today another 120,000. what about tomorrow? the quota principle of redistribution of refugees is not a solution to the refugee wave problem. it's a temporary measure that will only encourage more refugees to seek asylum in the eu, and it's about the consequences. the real solution to the problem must be to tackle the sources of immigration, i.e. the eu must focus on normalising the situation in the middle east and neutralising the islamic state.
madam president, mrs westphal, mr deutsch, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate everyone on the successful work on these two reports, which concentrate on the main elements of the european union's cohesion policy. they confirm the role of cohesion policy in supporting economic growth and job creation, especially when we are talking about the 6th cohesion report and in a period of economic crisis when cohesion policy is one of the main elements. secondly, the role of cohesion policy in territorial development and, more specifically, in the development of urban areas - a key element of the policy which allows us to look in the future at the role of urban areas in their different dimensions - big cities, capitals, small towns, surrounding regions. but the main theme, which is confirmed by both reports, is the theme of coordination. coordination at all levels, coordination in the thematic area, coordination in the efforts of all levels of government and of all those involved in the implementation of cohesion policy.
madam president, i suggest that the commissioner take on board three central points of the deutsch report. firstly, that cohesion policy has an incontestable role as the principal policy for reducing disparities. secondly, that it should be at the core of the investment policy of the european union in the sense of being an integral and leading part of the overall investment drive that the commissioner is currently trying to generate. thirdly, that there is the need for a new dynamic to the debate on cohesion policy in the longer run, in connection with the termination of the europe 2020 strategy and the movement towards a new multiannual financial framework. you have these three pillars, or points, on which to build a very strong position in the college and we wholly support you in your efforts to that end.
alde), in writing. the report's recommendations on empowering girls in the eu through education correspond to the publicly announced positions of the bulgarian liberal political party movement for rights and freedoms on the integration of children from minority groups. we believe it is essential to initiate national and supranational debates. gender equality and integration are issues that concern the entire european union, especially given that there are some 12 million roma in the european union and that they are the largest, but the poorest and least included minority. include in the discussions addressing gender inequality among children and young people from minority backgrounds, in whose societies it is more frequent and more pronounced. we consider education to be the most important strategic priority for the integration and dignified life of minority groups and we focus on the problems of access to education, early inclusion in the educational system and the skillful management of the children's society to achieve integration and prevention of attitudes towards gender inequality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must make a clear distinction between refugees and illegal immigrants, because if we accept all the people who come to the continent as people who are entitled to refugee protection, we must accept that we must provide that protection to more than 100 million people in africa and the middle east. secondly, the question of the reasons for this wave of immigration is extremely important, because while there is talk of allocation and quotas and things like that, nobody opens up the important question of the reason for what is happening. and the reason is the ongoing wars in syria, in iraq, in libya, in all the other countries of the middle east and north africa. these reasons must be removed, and until the dirty geopolitical games there are stopped, the flow of immigrants will not stop coming to the european continent. the only thing that can and should be done is to support the secular regimes, those that are against the islamic state, against islam, to be supported, to be armed, to be financed and to be given the opportunity to remove the cause of the huge illegal migration. otherwise, the allocation of quotas is unacceptable to me and will not work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the name change proposal because i think it should be discussed in the committee on foreign affairs and not directly in the chamber. another very good reason not to change the name right now is that such a change at this point could give legitimacy to the terrorist organization (hamas) that is ruling the gaza strip right now. in this context, the eu should not provide legitimacy to a terrorist organisation but should positively promote the peace process by promoting internal palestinian reconciliation. any step that could have a negative impact on the peace process must be avoided. the middle east peace process has a high priority on the eu agenda and it must remain so.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the marrakesh agreement. as the comprehensive analysis has shown, the new agreement will not only benefit our economy but will also significantly improve our trade structures. reducing trade costs is essential in competitive and politically challenging times like these. in addition, effective customs enforcement and compliance are crucial for further improving trade. the distribution of illegal goods and content should be counteracted and public hostility avoided. especially for countries like mine, a healthy and strong trading system is vital. non-ratification is therefore an obstacle to transparency, the elimination of red tape, the simplification of procedures and due diligence in respect of commitments. but above all, we must jointly guarantee the free movement of goods, and this would be hampered if the act in question were not adopted.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the trade facilitation agreement. to maintain a well-functioning, efficient and healthy economic environment, which ensures a more attractive european market and guarantees the preservation of our cultural heritage, less administrative burden is needed. this can be particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises that lack the necessary resources and know-how to cope with the bureaucracy of public administration. the trade facilitation agreement will not only allow for better market access and a wide variety of goods and businesses, but what is even more important is that we will see many new opportunities for innovative technologies, such as electronic payment systems, etc. the agreement will also streamline trade-related procedures, which is very important for small entrepreneurs in terms of simplifying overly complex procedures.
in writing. ‒ accession to the budapest convention (cmni) is a good step forward in streamlining contractual and navigational standards. the use of sea transport routes has long been a problem, particularly for my country, and we often struggle with the non-recognition of judgments and with questions of choice of law for individual countries. in order for everyone to be satisfied with the respective means of transport, we need an integrated legal system of mutually recognised competencies of each other. this will stimulate economic growth, competitiveness and legal stability. and the common judicial area will not only provide greater legal certainty, it will also promote awareness and appreciation of the use of inland waterways in an efficient and mutually beneficial way, without destroying them.
madam president, i did not support the quotas voted on in this report. i have long been convinced that this administrative measure will not work in practice. we should allow asylum seekers to apply in a european country where they want to, where they want to operate, and that european country should decide on their asylum if they meet the international legal conditions. i think this measure is wrong, it is against the interests of asylum seekers and it will not work in practice. these people will go to countries where they want to work, where they have families. and i am convinced that in the end, this sort of administrative division of asylum seekers can lead to a rise in anti-schengen sentiment in europe. and there's a growing desire to re-establish the borders between the states, and that's what i see as the biggest problem. therefore, in line with the czech government, i am in favour of solidarity but against administrative separation of applicants.
my dear mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support this report because i am firmly against the mandatory nature of quotas and the allocation of quotas, not least because it infringes the sovereignty of each country to control its own borders and to decide which people it can let into its territory and which not. and secondly, because in some way the standard in half the member states of the european union is different. how will you get some people to stay in, say, hungary, some in bulgaria, some in greece, and some in germany and sweden? how do you decide who stays where, and isn't that discrimination against them? third, there is no clear definition of what constitutes a refugee and what constitutes an illegal immigrant. we all know this in theory, but it's not applied in practice, and until it's specified, until it's clearly and simply said what the capacity is, it doesn't make sense to have these quotas, because they have to be calculated not against 150,000 or 160,000, as is being proposed at the moment, but they have to be calculated against about 100 million, which is the population of africa and the middle east. this is unwise and it can't end well. this also applies to the schengen agreement, not to mention the failure of the dublin regulations. that's why i'm against the quota allocation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it reflects the urgency of action and the determination of parliament to respond to the migratory challenges facing europe today. in the resolution, we strongly support the establishment of an emergency relocation mechanism which demonstrates our solidarity with refugees, especially the most vulnerable, but also with member states experiencing high migratory pressures. we insist that this temporary mechanism be replaced by a permanent one which can provide a long-term solution to the migration challenge. this mechanism should be mandatory for member states but flexible enough to allow for rapid adaptation given the fluctuating nature of migration. in this resolution we also recall that the western balkans route has become an important route for migration to the union, with a considerable increase in irregular crossings across turkey's borders with greece and bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ more and more people are living in cities in europe and around the world. this development is being accelerated mainly by population growth and new technologies. the aim of this own-initiative report by ms christine westphal is to take a broader look at the challenges facing eu policy and to outline the guidelines and boundaries of a future sustainable urban development policy. in short, the rapporteur believes that eu policy must urgently take action on an effective urban development policy in order to be able to have an impact on the consequences of europe's urbanisation and the speed at which it is taking place. the rapporteur believes that only through active and coordinated action by eu policy will cities be able to continue to fulfil their functions and offer their inhabitants the living conditions they want. however, it is also important to take into account the fact that european cities are extremely diverse and a common eu universal policy would not have the desired effect in all member states. i therefore voted against the proposal. i think it violates the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i supported the report on the urban dimension of eu policies because i recognise the importance of the fact that 72% of the european union's population live in urban areas and the trend is for this to increase in the future. this makes urban areas the main engine of our economy, and it is therefore necessary for the european union to create sustainable policy adapted to the needs of these areas in order to stimulate and facilitate their progressive and positive development. i am firmly of the view that the need for administrative relief is extremely cumbersome, not only when we talk about urban areas, but when we talk about eu policy in general.
mr president, madam high representative, the union now has the institutional means and your personal commitment to play a greater and, above all, a decisive role. there are three elements i would like to stress. first, we must be united and firm. we must be united because the member states have a responsibility to respect your work and that of our special representative and to avoid unilateral actions that weaken european action. we must be firm in our opposition to the settlements, which are illegal under international law, and to the continuation of this policy, which is not conducive to the resumption of peace negotiations. secondly, the role of the union is to identify and bring together moderate partners who are interested in and committed to peace in the middle east. we need to find these actors among the palestinians and the israelis as well as among the other countries in the region. intra-palestinian reconciliation and the sincere efforts of the arab neighbours are needed. we must make the most of the european neighbourhood policy in this area, and i am thinking in particular of the role of the younger generations. thirdly, the union's strategy for the middle east must be multidimensional, regional and realistic. it must be multidimensional and regional, because there are challenges other than the strictly israeli-palestinian conflict: the flows of migrants, the civil war in yemen, syria and iraq, not to mention the islamic state. it must be realistic, because the problems in the region, which also threaten european security and stability, will not simply disappear with the achievement of peace between israel and palestine. so yes to boldness and patience. we support you, because thanks to you the european union will be able to show its determination to finally find a long-term perspective for this region.
my dear mrs. chairman, dear mrs. mogherini, dear colleagues, it is increasingly clear that this conflict can no longer be dealt with in isolation. despite its long history and despite the difficulties in it, it is increasingly clear that this conflict is becoming an integral part of the much larger conflict that is developing in the middle east, namely the conflict between sunni islamist terrorist organizations, united and led by the islamic state organization, which cooperates with all other terrorist organizations, such as hamas in palestine, and fights on several fronts. without solving this problem, without solving this conflict, there is no solution for the other. the only way to put this on the table is to tell the truth about what the islamic state is, who is funding it, who is organizing it and who has an interest in it, and these truths must be told, because otherwise there is no way to seek and find a peaceful solution for all of europe.
the following table is provided: mr president, mrs vice-president mogherini, as a bulgarian mep and representative of our delegation to iran, i welcome the signed nuclear agreement a major diplomatic success and a first step towards achieving lasting peace in the middle east. iran can be our partner in the war against the islamic state. the refugee influx shows that a new effort and a global coalition involving iran, russia, the united states and europe is needed against the islamic terrorists in syria. i believe that iran can be our ally in the necessary military operations and on the ground against the islamic state. the return of iran to world diplomacy allows the european union to solve its main energy problem for a larger volume of gas supplies from russia to europe. many european countries, including my own country, bulgaria, including greece, are directly benefiting from the resumption of the nabucco project, a gas pipeline from iran to europe. i hope that negotiations on this will begin immediately on our initiative.
mr president, i would like to refer you to two points that president juncker particularly stressed this morning regarding employment that are of direct relevance to this debate. firstly, that refugees must be given the chance to work, which – besides letting them earn money – is a matter of basic human dignity. secondly, it is actually full employment that we should be striving to achieve. the report on a competitive labour market has the severe impediment of proceeding from the assumption that people are inclined to remain idle or passive behind rigid protective social and labour barriers, since they supposedly lack the necessary entrepreneurial spirit and impulse to be mobile: a deeply flawed defining proposition, since it is at odds with the basic human preference for a life in dignity and the accompanying desire to engage in productive work given the chance to find meaningful and rewarding jobs. conversely, and quite correctly, the other report highlights the need to enable social- and solidarity-based enterprises to grow, and urges member states to promote the cooperative enterprise model, precisely as contributing factors so that the social- and solidarity-based economy may fulfil its defining mission to provide full, high-quality employment. in this regard, i would like to urge commission vice-president dombrovskis to personally commit himself to ensuring that the commission responds positively to the call, contained in the report, for the commission to come forward with a legal framework codifying a dependable specific status for such enterprises, defined as having other objectives than simply profit for shareholders as to the platform on undeclared work, just a word to assure you – since i am the rapporteur on behalf of parliament – that we shall do everything in our power to enable the inauguration of this platform before the end of the year.
ppe) mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, when we talk about competitiveness, we are talking about high levels of productivity, quality staff and added value, namely the ability to be faster, more successful and more profitable than others. this formula for success is as simple as it is complex, because the foundation of a prosperous europe is in quality human capital. it's really time to invest in our people, in our young generation and especially in our talents. the number of young people out of education or employment is indeed too high. the number of school dropouts is also increasing. even highly educated young people fail to find professional fulfillment. but that doesn't mean that our young generation is incompetent, it just means that the knowledge and skills that are being promoted don't meet the needs of the labour market. unemployment has been a buzzword in europe for too long and this negative trend must change. so we need to steer young people into the careers of the future, those that don't even exist yet, to create fast-thinking, creative people with excellent digital skills and analytical abilities. i really believe very strongly in the need to build an ecosystem of strategies at the european level, including measures like education reform, support for entrepreneurship, improving labour mobility, as many of my colleagues have mentioned, within europe, in order to be really much better prepared for the challenges not only of the 21st century, but also of the 22nd century. by promoting business through quality people and innovative products, we'll finally stop talking about unemployment and mention the word competitiveness much more often.
mr. chairman, what the financial crisis has done is traumatize the labor market. the kind of trauma that young people suffer the most. what the crisis has also done is push these young people into the emergency lane. this strip that provides a perpetual loop of unpaid internships, temporary employment and a gray economy. this is something we have to stop. we need to stop it, and we need to stop it with concrete action, so that we don't let this debate stay here or in some publication. i have a very specific suggestion. the first is to reduce subsidised employment and use the money saved to fund the dreams of europe's brave entrepreneurs. they'll reveal the jobs we're looking for. moreover, erasmus for entrepreneurs only works within the european union, let's expand it. let young european entrepreneurs gain experience in the usa or brazil. i am sure that this will help us to overcome the fact that there is now a labour market for young people and a labour market for everyone else. this is unacceptable.
ppe) mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss the sustainability of health systems in europe. despite the european union's limited powers in the field of health, it must become our priority not just in words but in deeds. it is difficult to explain to european citizens why we are more concerned with farm animal health than human health. the challenges of the future will become increasingly complex due to demographic changes, population ageing, the increase in chronic diseases. this reality should be reflected in the drafting of the recommendations to member states in the framework of the european semester. specific commitments are needed to implement structural reforms that ensure not only financial sustainability but also equal access for european citizens to quality healthcare adequate for the 21st century. in europe, there are still large health disparities between the different member states, which hinder economic and social cohesion. i believe that overcoming these problems requires the european institutions to engage even more deeply in assessing the functioning of our health systems, monitoring their performance and - very important to me - measuring access to quality healthcare within the european semester by introducing new health indicators. this will help member states to learn from each other, exchange good practices and identify effective solutions. it will also allow an assessment of the respect of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. let me ask the commission one last question, commissioner, and it is this: the report published last week states that lack of information is the main reason why patients cannot make the most of their rights under european law. what concrete measures could the commission take to ensure that all european patients are aware of their rights as european citizens?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur on the comprehensive report he has presented to us. i welcome the fact that his report also highlights a number of challenges to the general application of the law in the european union. despite the positive feedback in terms of the smaller number of infringements recorded, we must not fail to keep our focus on the big picture. we still face numerous challenges, particularly with regard to the general and correct application of european union law in the territory of the member states. for a well-functioning single market, in order to preserve the legal order on the territory of the member states of the european union, the support to national services, which have the main responsibility when it comes to the incorporation and application of new rules and guidelines, needs to be further improved. we also need to further improve eu legislation to prevent overly complex legal structures, which will provide greater clarity and legal stability. this will further stimulate economic growth and employment.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the results of the reports show that the late and incorrect transposition of european directives continues to be a major problem in the application of european union law. the active role of citizens and the european institutions in ensuring that member states comply with eu law is also noteworthy. the complaints they file are crucial. however, the overall decrease in the number of formal infringement proceedings over the past five years (from 2 900 to 1 300) shows that a solution has been found. the positive role of the 'eu pilot' pre-procedure cannot be overstated. in this respect, more transparency is needed to ensure that the european parliament and the citizens are properly informed. we know that the primary responsibility for the correct application and enforcement of european union law lies with the member states, but this should not relieve the eu institutions of their obligation to respect primary law when adopting legislation. there is therefore a great need for rules in administrative procedures which are generally applicable to the european institutions. this will reduce red tape, ensure full respect for citizens' right to good administration and make the european union more accessible.
in writing. cohesion policy is one of the most important policies of the european union. it has enabled the member states to cope with the enormous burden of the economic crisis that we have witnessed in recent years. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, tamás deutsch, on investing in jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu, because it takes due account of what has been done so far and sets out new policy guidelines in this area that will help us to overcome the challenges we face today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which was drafted with great professionalism by my colleague eduard kukan. i find his report insightful, informative and a real assessment of the implementation of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in 2012. i supported the report because it makes specific recommendations on how to continue our active work in this direction. the ageing of europe's population is a fact and we have a duty to provide the elderly with a deservedly positive environment and to fight vigorously against their discrimination in society. we must ensure that ageing is not seen as a burden by older citizens of the european union, but as a well-deserved benefit.
in writing. ‒ on the subject of the transport sector, let me be a little more critical. i think we're stuck in a rut of regulations and red tape. this has damaged competition in the sector. small and medium-sized carriers are dying. moreover, we create difficulties for our transport operators, while at the same time keeping the door wide open to third parties who do not comply with our rules. they don't comply, but they're working in our markets. take turkey, for example. turkish carriers operate in our market, but they don't comply with our rules. and another thing, there are member states that are introducing restrictions to create obstacles for transport companies from less developed countries. this own-initiative report is non-legislative, it only makes proposals, and i voted in favour of it because it proposes a set of measures which i believe will be useful, such as the development of modern transport infrastructure in europe, and above all it stresses the need to eliminate the differences between the levels of development and maintenance of infrastructure, in particular between the eastern and western parts of the union.
in writing. transport is a highly complex system that is the engine of the fast-paced and mobile world we live in. transport is a key economic sector and vital for european and international business. the european union needs to rethink its policy to meet the near future with a smart, competitive, safe, integrated and modern transport system. i voted for mr van de camp's report because it sets out in depth and detail all the main points, proposes alternatives to deal with the many challenges we face and presents short, medium and long-term measures for the sustainable development of this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the report by mrs wozenberg on the professional careers of women in science and higher education and the existence of so-called glass ceilings. the term 'glass ceiling', coined in 1986 by journalists, describes the invisible barriers that limit women's progress towards higher positions in their professional development. for me and my group, ambiguous messages are being sent through paragraph 48 of the report, which deals with gender balance in boards and specific targets and quotas. i do not support gender discrimination and i think that the rapporteur has produced an excellent report, but i do not think that the introduction of quotas is a solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague mrs vozemberg, firstly because it precisely identifies the factors behind the glass ceiling faced by women in scientific and academic careers, and in particular the gender stereotypes that are consciously or unconsciously reproduced by men and women. the report then identifies possible measures to break through this glass ceiling. i particularly welcome the emphasis on awareness campaigns for men as well as women, the promotion of women's networking and mentoring schemes and initiatives. the attention paid to institutional change, which requires a strong commitment from member states and relevant ministries, is also highly relevant, as is the full integration of the gender dimension in horizon 2020. finally, i wholeheartedly support the proposal to create the women and science in europe prize.
in writing. ‒ the report by colleague liliana rodriguez focuses on facilitating access to education and on the differences between boys and girls, especially in the field of education. here, education is presented as a tool for cultural development and for changing gender stereotypes, a tool to combat structural discrimination and to strengthen the participation of girls in areas such as science, technology, engineering, mathematics, culture and arts and crafts. i voted against the report with my political group, as i believe that it goes beyond the remit of the committee responsible by proposing measures in areas which are outside the mandate given to the ep.
in writing. we live in a modern world, and in a modern world, everyone is equal, regardless of gender, age, religion and ethnicity. i supported the report on the empowerment of women through education because the situation of discrimination against women is inevitably progressing, but it still exists. we need to take measures to make this process more intensive and to guarantee young women equal opportunities and a chance for economic and social independence. it is unacceptable that young women in the european union should face stereotypical barriers to their career development.
in writing. ‒ i am categorically against the european commission's proposal for mandatory binding quotas for the redistribution of asylum seekers. quotas are not a solution to the refugee problem, they are a temporary measure that will only encourage more refugees to seek asylum in the eu. the solution to the internal migration problem must be based on building cooperation on a voluntary basis and trust between member states, as well as by providing more financial resources in specific areas such as frontex and the european refugee agency. but this is a solution only to the consequences of the wave of immigration, not to the causes. the real measures to deal with the refugee problem are solely linked to the union's external policy. the only way for the eu to deal with the current problem is to establish international cooperation between the us, russia and the arab countries to put down the wars in the middle east and eradicate terrorism in the region. as long as there are wars and terrorist organizations close to the eu, we will see a constant influx of immigrants.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because parliament must send a strong signal of support for a genuine, more coherent and comprehensive migration policy, based on a long-term strategy. if solidarity is to be the principle underlying our action in this area, it cannot exist without the effective implementation of our common standards at union level and effective control of our external borders. the resolution also supports the establishment of a permanent and mandatory relocation mechanism for asylum seekers and also stresses the need to combat the criminal networks of smugglers. finally, there is an urgent need to ensure greater coherence between the union's internal and external policies and to integrate the issue of migration into our external policy, which implies regular dialogue and increased cooperation with third countries.
ppe), in written form. ‒ i supported the resolution on migration because i believe that the measures are beneficial for bulgaria and that a new approach is needed to overcome the migration crisis. first, the european union must set up centres in third countries to determine whether migrants heading to europe are actually fleeing conflict or want to immigrate purely for economic reasons. effectively implemented, this programme will reduce the number of economic migrants who make up a large part of the migration flow to europe. it is extremely important to strengthen border controls to stop illegal immigrants trying to enter bulgaria. only through secure external borders can we guarantee national security and preserve one of the eu's greatest achievements schengen. with its rich experience in successfully protecting the bulgarian-turkish border, bulgaria can only contribute to the schengen area. a more effective return policy for illegal economic migrants entering europe is also needed. the adoption of a pan-european list of safe countries of origin will speed up the examination of their documents and facilitate their return. at the same time, however, the eu must support the economic development of a number of african countries through the proposed trust fund, so that they can transform themselves from a source of immigrants into a source of prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the eu's role in the middle east peace process because the text rightly points out that there will be no peace in the middle east until both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the civil war in syria and the threat of the spread of the islamic state are resolved. it is increasingly clear that the conflict between israel and palestine is becoming part of a much larger conflict that is unfolding across the middle east, namely the conflict between sunni islamist terrorist organizations, united and led by the islamic state, which cooperates with all other terrorist organizations, such as hamas in palestine, and fights on several fronts. that is why i am deeply concerned about the stalemate in the peace process between israel and palestine, because the raging conflicts and the spread of terrorism and radicalism pose a direct threat to the security of israel and the stability of the region, but also to the security of the eu. without solving this problem, without solving this conflict, there is no solution for the other. the eu should not engage in negotiations with entities advocating the destruction of other peoples. there can be no negotiations with hamas and with the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in belarus, because it deals mainly with the state and level of respect for human rights in the country. progress in the area of freedom of expression and the media, as well as in respecting the political rights of citizens and opposition activists, has led to closer relations between the eu and belarus, and to the first official visit by a european parliament delegation since 2002. but despite these few positive steps in the right direction, the situation remains deeply worrying. there are administrative prosecutions and harassment of independent media for political reasons, as well as criminal prosecutions of young activists. on the eve of the presidential elections in belarus, the country's government must grant the opposition unhindered access to all government-controlled means of communication and allow it to participate in the elections on an equal footing. only then will belarus be able to ensure that presidential elections are held in accordance with internationally recognised standards.
in writing. unfortunately, the social and solidarity economy is overshadowed when talking about the economy as a whole. in fact, there are 2 million enterprises and companies in the european union in the social and solidarity economy. what's remarkable about this type of enterprise is that their primary purpose is not material benefits, but social support and humanitarian aid, and at the same time they employ 14 million people, and among them are the most vulnerable and weakest members of our society. these enterprises need proper attention and concrete assistance, especially in the context of a union based on the principle of solidarity. we need a perfect regulatory framework that promotes social entrepreneurship, stimulates innovation in the sector and ensures sustainability and security. that is why i gave my 'thank you' for the report to my colleague verónica lope fontagné.
in writing. i believe that overcoming the economic crisis and creating a competitive labour market in the eu depends on several key factors. first of all, i believe that to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to invest in education and skills, in developing talents and creating opportunities for fulfillment in life. however, today we are in a situation where young people are finding it increasingly difficult to make the transition from education to work and are often willing to accept positions that do not correspond to their qualifications. that is why we need to invest in skills that are in line with the needs of the labour market and society. but here i want to make the following clarification. education systems should not be solely geared to stimulating skills and competences that meet business needs. they should focus on building the horizontal skills needed for the personal development and growth of young people, so as to make them proactive and responsible citizens.
in writing. it is extremely worrying that 25 million people are unemployed in europe, but it is equally worrying that there are 2 million jobs that are unfilled due to a lack of qualified people to fill them. it is this paradoxical imbalance that we must combat. it is necessary to prepare young people from an early age for the needs of the market. we need immediate and concrete measures to create a close cooperation between education and business. it is also essential that digital skills become an integral part of the education system in all member states of the european union. i voted in favour of martina dlabajová's report because i support the aspects it sets out.
in writing. ‒ in general, i welcome the idea of a review of the application of the law in the eu. especially when you consider the fact that the complaints have increased compared to previous years. however, we should not be fooled by numbers. although increased awareness has increased public scrutiny, there are more factors to consider. different processes, such as simplification of eu legislation, often occur alongside integration into national systems. particularly countries in the eastern parts of europe, such as bulgaria, have had much greater difficulties, as they often lack the necessary resources, guaranteed stability or know-how. moreover, we must bear in mind that the sectors concerned are among the most complex. violations in transposition are becoming a major problem and the commission has to monitor this process closely because more and more citizens are highlighting these problem areas. however, the report proposes a common european asylum system, which my group and i do not agree with, and that is why i voted against it.
madam president, yes, it is time to stop shifting the problem in space and time. yes, now is the time to remove institutional barriers, national egos and populist discourses. i shall confine myself to three observations. firstly, while we must pay attention to the mediterranean, we must not lose sight of the land borders, particularly those with turkey. more sustained dialogue is needed and non-bilateral formats should be used. for this reason, i say yes to ratifying and implementing the agreements already concluded, but i also say yes to innovation with partners such as the gulf countries, the african union and the united nations. secondly, let this be clear, the time is now for shared responsibility and for humanity. yes, bulgaria will not make its participation in the schengen area a condition for participating in the relocation mechanism. but we must remember that the schengen area is our common security. let us defend our founding principles to the end. thirdly, and finally, it is high time that the member states attach greater importance to development policy. in this way, solutions will be brought as close as possible to the problems in the countries of origin and transit.
madam president, the council has shown complete impotence in dealing with the challenge of migration flows. for six months now the european commission has been unable to find the levers to get the member states to implement the emergency measures it has proposed. this delay is costing us too much already. the european union has been paralysed not only on the outside but also on the inside for the past two days. we are facing the worst humanitarian crisis we have seen in 70 years. last night hundreds of migrants left istanbul on foot for the bulgarian-turkish border and we are now hearing that the hungarians are using gas against the refugees. we want a permanent asylum mechanism that guarantees solidarity with people in danger and the safety of our citizens. let me say, commissioner, that the relocation figures are no longer relevant because they are becoming less and less up to date as time goes on.
madam president, i strongly object to the proposal made for a mandatory quota allocation of immigrants in the territory of the member states of the european union. it would be a violation of the national sovereignty of each of the countries to guard their national borders. the offer made does not solve anything because it does not answer how this invasion will be stopped. we cannot keep in bulgaria those who have accepted mrs merkel's kind invitation. in that sense, she should be held accountable for her words and for the problems she created with the closure of the borders following that invitation. that was part of the problem. bulgaria cannot afford to take any more people either for political, economic, demographic or value reasons and problems, and the stated intention of some of the brussels bureaucracy to punish the member states that do not agree with the decision makes the european union very close to the soviet one. i therefore strongly object to the proposal made for a mandatory quota of migrants and i urge that it be rejected.
alde), in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that europe needs a common migration policy. it is unfair that equal members of the european union face entirely different pressures. in the current situation, europe needs to be more united than ever before in order to be able to react quickly and effectively to the roots of the problem namely instability and wars in the neighbourhood. that is why i call on european leaders to take a strong, unified position on a common approach to the migration situation for the sake of peace and security in the middle east, but also for the sake of our united europe.
in writing. the conclusions of the justice and home affairs council are a good first step. the agreement reached between the parties, however, is far from what all europeans expect for a unified approach to measures to deal with the migratory pressure and to restore confidence in national authorities and the eu. i am concerned that the conclusions do not take sufficient account of the possibility that the refugee flow may change its route. today, there is enough information that several thousand refugees are likely to try to cross the border between turkey and bulgaria, which is the eu's external border. at this stage, however, it is not mentioned as a place that needs attention and reinforcement. the eu started the debate on the refugee crisis late and with a vague focus, so everything we do today needs to be decisive and right. the huge influx of people is becoming an increasingly serious social problem that may escalate politically. we don't have time to convince our societies that europe can do it. this will be exploited by all kinds of political extremists in our own countries, trying to challenge the european project.
in writing. the current migration crisis requires immediate and decisive action. first, i call on the european commission to draw up a list of transit countries which are in the path of the migration flow to europe. on the one hand, these countries must be helped to combat human trafficking effectively; at the same time, however, we must immediately start negotiations with them on the establishment of distribution centres to stop economic immigrants coming to europe. only in this way can we reduce the flow of migrants before they reach european shores. strengthening external borders is another important measure that will ensure european security while at the same time stopping illegal immigration. the eu has mechanisms in place to allow those who want to enter the member states legally to do so. crossing the green border without a visa or a valid reason, however, is not among them. last but not least, the powers of frontex should be extended immediately so that the agency can organise the return of unsuccessful asylum seekers to their countries of origin. the agency already has experience in similar work on the attica project and common european actions in this regard will make return operations more effective.
ppe), in written form. as president juncker stressed in his state of the union address, when 'the price of a litre of milk is lower than the price of a litre of water', we are talking about a crisis on the milk market. unfortunately, the crisis is gradually spreading to other sectors such as pork, fruit and vegetables. this requires the adoption of appropriate market measures in favour of farmers in all sectors affected by the crisis. the chronic decline in milk market prices has led to significant losses in milk producers' incomes. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to provide a specific package of measures worth eur 500 million to support the sector. a large part of this amount - a total of eur 420 million - will be distributed through national financial packages as direct compensation to dairy farmers, while ensuring maximum flexibility for member states and an accelerated transfer of advances under rural development programmes. all of these measures are a necessary injection to deal with the short-term consequences of the crisis. at the same time, other instruments that can help stabilise the milk market, such as the 'school milk' scheme, should not be neglected. i therefore call for the speedy conclusion of the negotiations on the new school scheme regulation, which will provide a higher level of european funding for the scheme.
alde), in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the preparation of the european commission work programme for 2016, calling for the inclusion of expiry clauses in the commission's proposed acts so that they can be reviewed periodically, avoiding over-regulation while allowing the necessary flexibility to european legislation to respond to the dynamic challenges of today.
in writing. ‒ the extraordinary vote we held on 17 september is a precedent in the way the european parliament operates, it undermines the democratic principles of the institution and it has once again proved that the social democrats and the christian democrats are pursuing a common policy. the european council has not yet decided on the mandatory quotas for the relocation of asylum seekers residing in greece, italy and hungary, and the president of the ep has decided unanimously to put the commission's proposal to the vote. the european parliament thus took a decision without discussing the proposal in its committee and without being able to make any additions. i strongly disagree with the way this decision was made. i am also strongly against quotas because they are a temporary solution to the problem and if they work, they will continue to be applied. first it was 40,000, now it's 120,000, the next wave will probably be even bigger. under the dictatorship of the social democrats and the christian democrats we will be obliged to accept another quota of refugees. distribution is not a solution to the problem, but rather a clear and loud call for even more refugees and illegal immigrants. the decision taken by the ep is the beginning of the end of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the current european asylum legal framework is extremely damaging to the countries on the union's external land and sea borders. the dublin system is based on the principle that these countries, including bulgaria, must deal with the ever-increasing mixed migration flows of asylum seekers and illegal economic migrants. long before today's crisis, i was among those who called for a profound change and a fundamental overhaul of the very essence of this system. it is now clear to all that a corrective mechanism is needed to ensure that the burden is shared in solidarity between the frontline countries and the rest of the union. the european commission has put forward proposals for mandatory quotas and guarantees that solidarity between member states will not be left to goodwill alone. i stand firmly behind this idea because it is in fact protecting the bulgarian interest and will protect bulgaria for decades to come from the threat of a sudden and massive invasion of our land border with turkey. the european parliament has shown that it can react responsibly and quickly at a critical moment. the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of profits is to be welcomed by the european parliament. the member states are now in the process of taking the final decision within the council.
the rapporteur. dear mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, today i have the opportunity to present to the european parliament a legislative report on the proposal to amend regulation no 1303/2013 on the provisions of general application as regards the specific measures for greece. first of all, i wanted to start by saying that this is an exceptional situation that needs to be overcome with specific measures. each of us has followed the summit on 12 and 13 july, when the eurozone leaders reached an agreement to support greece, and everyone was aware of the need for urgent action, both the eurozone leaders and the european commission and, of course, the european parliament. in this context, the committees in parliament have decided on a simplified procedure without amendments to this regulation in order to contribute to the general conditions for support to greece and to allow the regulation to enter into force as soon as possible. on 17 july, the european commission presented a legislative proposal, which includes emergency measures and aims to: first, to increase the level of initial pre-financing for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes funded by the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece. second, to increase the maximum co-financing rate for the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 under the 'cohesion' and 'regional competitiveness and employment' objectives in greece to 100% and to remove the ceiling for payments under these programmes. by amending the regulation, the proposed measures aim to overcome a critical liquidity shortage in the greek economy and provide an immediate and necessary stimulus to investment, which will allow a rapid start-up of a larger number of projects. this proposal is budget neutral for the period 2014-2020. it is important that the procedure is completed before the end of 2015 so that the greek authorities can fully use part of the funding available to them for the period 2007-2013. three other committees in parliament have asked for an opinion, namely the committee on budgets, the committee on fisheries and employment and the committee on social affairs. all my colleagues have agreed to apply the simplified procedure. as regards the committee on regional development, no member objected to this procedure. the council, under the luxembourg presidency, has also considered this dossier as an urgent matter and will follow parliament if it accepts the commission proposal as it stands. however, solidarity and exceptional measures should not mean that greece does not bear responsibility. if greece does not accelerate the pace of its payment applications for the programmes concerned before the end of 2016, it risks recovering the additional initial pre-financing. finally, greece should submit a report to the commission on the implementation of these exceptional measures. i would like to emphasize that we are here in this chamber as representatives of the citizens of the european union and can express our concern. we might think that we have more pressing problems now, but we also have to respect our commitment to support greece here and today. for that reason, i urge you to support the motion.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work on the dossier. i can say that i know the situation in greece well enough to form an opinion on the matter. i am sure that the difficult times the greek people are going through require us to take extraordinary measures. emergencies, of course, require such extraordinary responses on our part. however, these emergencies also require extraordinary control. extraordinary control over every penny of european taxpayer money that goes to greece, because if there's one thing i don't believe in, it's that i trust the government that is currently in greece to the hilt. i don't believe mr. tsipras either, who said he was firmly behind the european union just two days before he went to ask for help from russia. i do not believe that the same mr tsipras who said he would fulfil his commitments to the greek people to the end, would hold his responsibility to the end just one month before he resigned. so i want to call on you, alongside voting on these emergency measures for greece, given that there are 27 other member states in the european union, to have one mind, to keep a close eye on the situation there and the spending of european funds against the plan we are adopting today, so that we can ensure for all the people in europe that their money is spent in the most transparent way possible, so that we can get greece back on its feet.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you to all the colleagues who took part in the debate, and to the commissioner for his explanations. the debate was very interesting and very focused on the problems of both greece and cohesion policy. let me make a few clarifications and answer some of the lines that have been presented here in the house. first of all, i would like to point out that the committee on regional policy has dealt very responsibly with the commission's proposal at two of its meetings, devoted a special special meeting to it and then held another meeting to discuss the matter. i accept all the concerns of my colleagues who are concerned about the possible lack of control. i would like to stress that this proposal is not a gift to greece, it is a proposal that allows the greek side to use a resource when it needs it, at a time when there is a need for that resource. this proposal is extraordinary, it requires extraordinary behaviour and extraordinary measures, but it does not set a precedent and it does not increase funding for the greek side, but it allows greece to use a resource that has already been agreed to in order to be able to solve problems at the moment. cohesion policy does not become a financial liquidity policy, cohesion policy through this type of exceptional decisions fulfils its role of being applied effectively according to the conditions in each member state. whether the measures will be successful, we will see, we will observe and we will control. the greek government is able to do this through the cohesion policy of such initiatives and measures. whether it will use this opportunity we will be able to control through the reports to the european commission and through all the instruments of control of the european parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs eleni theocharous on this excellent report, for which her experience on the ground gives her every legitimacy to make recommendations. i would like to emphasize three elements. firstly, it is clear that the role of local authorities is becoming indispensable if we are to increase the effectiveness of development aid. the definition, in conjunction with the local authorities, of a limited number of priorities should allow for better adequacy and appropriateness of the projects implemented. it is also a way of sharing responsibility with the state actors who are closest to the citizens. secondly, i believe that it is high time that local authorities cooperate more closely in development, because it is through them that we can promote the emergence of democracy and prevent and heal conflicts, which, as we know, are one of the main obstacles to development in many countries. recognition of the role of local authorities should also improve women's participation in decision-making, both in principle and because the positive developmental impact is known to be significant. finally, the new guidelines in the commission's communication on local authorities must be translated into practice today in the implementation of the 11th edf. there is no time to lose for eu aid to bear fruit: let us not turn a blind eye to the links between today's migration crisis and the perfectibility of our european development policy. i hope that this report will be sent, beyond the council and the commission, to the local authorities in our member states, to the african union for example, to our acp partners, in order to highlight the role of local authorities in development cooperation.
mr. chairman, my city of sofia is facing an extremely big problem and that is the flooding of illegal economic immigrants. all of these people are economic migrants, because according to international norms and treaties, refugees should be housed in the nearest safe country, and according to international law, that is turkey. economic immigrants are taking over the center of sofia and permanently changing the face of this city. the main reason for this is the presence of a camp for illegal immigrants in the very center of the capital of bulgaria. these reception centers create a lot of problems for people who live nearby. migrants who receive refugee status and leave the centers are unable to integrate into society, creating closed religious and ethnic enclaves in the very center of the city. for now, it's a few blocks away from the capital's largest market and the city center. but with each passing day, this enclave expands and takes up more and more of the city center. it's the same in the other two neighborhoods where there are these kind of centers. sofia no longer looks like a european capital and this process must stop. the bulgarian authorities should immediately take measures to remove the refugee camps near the turkish border, where illegal economic migrants pass daily.
mr president, recently all of us became witnesses to unfortunate events in europe: a mass inflow of refugees from the middle east and africa, thousands of dead people and bitter divisions among the eu member states over the migrants crisis. in this regard i would like to draw your attention to the responsibilities of frontex, and those respectively of the commission and the council. in facing the emergency situation in the european union, how the agency fulfils its mission to promote, coordinate and develop european border management in line with eu fundamental rights is of the utmost importance. i would like to call for the urgent implementation of an effective strategy and for the preparation of a new strategy, well before 2017, in relation to the announcement by frontex during the hearing this year. in this context, the following must be answered: how, in the most efficient and effective way, can the agency fulfil its task according to the new strategy developed on the basis of a changed reality in the regions. these issues are becoming more and more important nowadays in view of the worsening security environment and the problems of migrants coming to the eu. there is an urgent need for a common european position and a long-term approach. frontex needs to improve strategy, have a flexible reaction and produce real results in the implementation of the eu’s executive-branch responsibilities.
on 17 september, the mayor of duisburg, mr. søren link, made discriminatory comments against citizens of eastern european countries, in which he said, quote: 'i am inclined to take in twice as many syrian refugees, but at the expense of getting rid of a few eastern europeans.' despite the reactions he provoked, his comments continued in the same vein, this time directed at the citizens of my country, bulgaria. i find such statements to be highly inappropriate, unnecessarily provocative and divisive among the citizens of the union. this comes at a time when the european union is facing a refugee and humanitarian crisis. we are expected to be united to face the challenges that are very likely to change our common future. how long will we be divided into eastern and western europeans? populism in one direction or another is the path to the destruction of everything that has been built. i strongly disagree with mr link's statement and call on my colleagues and other european politicians to refrain from making such statements, which add to the already tense situation. i call on all to engage in constructive dialogue in search of common solutions.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, madam commissioner, i strongly support the introduction of a single system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products at european union level. the benefits of introducing a single protection at european level are many. first, it will stimulate the technological and economic development of certain areas in europe and increase the number of people employed in the production of traditional goods. secondly, the promotion of local and regional traditional products is important not only for ensuring fair remuneration of local producers but also for creating the conditions for the development of sustainable cultural tourism. in conclusion, i would like to say that there is a real risk that traditional crafts and production methods will disappear forever, and we cannot afford that. i therefore call on the commission to develop and propose an appropriate legislative framework in the short term.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, for a year we have had this absolutely fruitless conversation in this chamber. for a year now, we've been telling you that the atrocities of isis and similar organizations in the middle east will cause a wave of people to flee from them. we have been saying for a year that the republic of turkey is involved in this war and it is participating openly, bombing the kurdish positions in northern iraq. for a year now, we have been saying that only military intervention in this territory would stop this wave of refugees and immigrants and somehow save the european continent. unfortunately, none of that happened, and yes, my country bulgaria was badly hit by the wave of illegal immigrants. why do i say immigrants? because there seems to be a misunderstanding in this room about character and about origin and about the difference between an immigrant and a refugee. the immigrant comes from a safe country, and that's turkey, and none of this happens and nothing changes. what needs to happen, of course, is that there are no quotas, no hot spots, because you can't keep someone somewhere against their will. that's why i strongly object to all allocation quotas and hot spots. there's one quota and one point and they're germany, where they want to go these people.
mr president, first of all i welcome the allocation of additional funds for new posts within frontex and europol, but i would draw attention to the training of staff in the agencies and the member states. two aspects are important. on the one hand, access to education for young refugees because it is an important vector for integration and, on the other hand, psychological support for victims. they should really be able to cope. secondly, there is a need for a more open dialogue with neighbouring countries which are likely to accept refugees on good terms. saudi arabia reports 130,000 young syrian students, while the uae reports 100,000 syrians who have been granted residency permits since 2011. the question is: beyond the numbers and status of refugees, what are we doing together to respond coherently to this crisis? finally, we must applaud the extraordinary efforts of lebanon and jordan. the difficulties are enormous, but it must be admitted that both countries are holding on. our european effort in this respect must be commensurate with the results and we must also draw the conclusions from what makes these countries today islands of stability in the mediterranean region.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, while the european union is struggling to find a solution, thousands of innocent people continue to suffer. we repeat the need for solidarity every time, but every time we demonstrate how far we are from speaking with one voice. building walls within the eu is a xenophobic measure that goes against the values and policies of the eu. at a time when record numbers of people are fleeing war and oppression, it is unacceptable for full eu members to want to isolate themselves from the problem. we are facing an unprecedented wave of refugees, and the sooner we realize that there is no national solution to this complex problem, but only a common approach, the sooner we can help the thousands of people who are suffering. this is not only a european crisis, but also a regional and global one, and that requires that we include in the solution all the countries neighbouring the eu, which are bearing a large part of the burden of the refugee wave. in this context, i welcome the decision to relocate 160 000 refugees within the eu, as well as the decisions to set up 'hotspots' and to help 2 million refugees in turkey. but that's not enough. the eu needs to take a common position and actively participate in resolving the conflicts in the region that are the root cause of the refugee wave.
in writing. the refugee situation is deteriorating day by day and this requires our timely and rapid response. we cannot stand by and watch as thousands of people risk their lives, leave their homes to escape war. we are currently facing a humanitarian crisis whose scale requires an adequate and timely european solution. we must show solidarity and each member state must shoulder its share of responsibility in tackling this problem. there is another aspect of the refugee crisis that we should not ignore: the fears and worries of the people. yes, we must show solidarity and be sympathetic to the plight of refugees, but at the same time we must respond adequately to these fears, without falling into the trap of populism. i believe that europe can only manage the migration crisis if it is united. instead of building walls and closing borders, let us seek a pan-european solution to the problem and stop blaming each other.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core conventions of the international labour organisation, which constitute the basic international labour standards. when the convention was adopted in 1930, states were called upon to end the use of forced labour within the shortest possible time and to criminalise the act. to date, after more than 80 years, the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labour. i therefore welcome the protocol signed last year in geneva, which aims to close the gaps in the implementation of the forced labour convention and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking for the purpose of labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. i call on member states to ratify those parts of the protocol that fall within eu competence and to make efforts to do so by the end of 2016 in order to ensure effective protection and enforcement of labour laws, awareness raising and international cooperation in the field of migration.
in writing. ‒ mr president, as the report of the european union agency for fundamental rights on labour exploitation in the eu shows, despite the fact that eu legislation contains provisions in this area, workers in europe continue to be at risk of being subject to severe labour exploitation. this is particularly true for those working outside their country of origin. i therefore warmly welcome and support the recommendation to authorise member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention, as regards judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is a small but important step in our joint efforts to sanction labour exploitation in europe, to combat trafficking in human beings and to ensure decent working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to support bulgaria and greece, which suffered enormous damage as a result of floods earlier this year. this fund was set up in 2002 specifically to provide financial assistance to countries affected by major natural disasters. however, in my view, this mechanism is not working and the compensation it provides is grossly inadequate. it is even an extreme injustice that non-eu countries receive many times more than eu countries. this is the case with serbia. at the beginning of the year, i sent a written question to the commission asking whether the commission intended to propose changes to the regulatory framework for the esf 'solidarity' to make the calculation and distribution of compensation fairer. however, the commission considers that the fund is generally well-functioning, fair and helps affected countries to overcome the financial burden caused by disasters. although the aid will be granted almost a year after the disaster and covers only part of the damage suffered by the state, the commission does not intend to propose any further revision of the instrument in the near future.
in writing. i welcome the release of almost €6.4 million from the eu solidarity fund to help repair the damage caused by the severe disasters in bulgaria earlier this year. heavy rains in january and february caused flooding and landslides that damaged local infrastructure and a number of private homes in the southeastern part of the country. to my great regret, within the last year and a half this is the second devastating disaster to befall my country and this is the third consecutive request for assistance from the fund. yes, the amount we'll get is small compared to the damage, but it will help rebuild public infrastructure. what about the people whose homes were destroyed? the solidarity fund does not reimburse damage to private property, but we have a moral obligation to help affected citizens and to take the necessary measures so that we can prevent disasters of a similar scale in the future. i believe that this is only possible through prevention.
in writing. – in the early 2015, severe winter conditions caused natural disaster classified as "major" in bulgaria and another serious one (classified as "regional") in greece. the calamities resulted in high-cost damages for the less developed south-east region in bulgaria, and evros and central regions in greece. considerable damage occurred to public infrastructure, such as dykes, communication networks and roads, as well as businesses, private homes and immovable assets. the total estimated support from the european solidarity fund was calculated to eur 16.3 million. in fact, the mobilisation would not require an amendment to the 2015 budget, but will provide crucial help for the affected and vulnerable communities. the two cases match the european solidarity fund’s criteria. the nature of the disasters and their vast extent profoundly impacted on the local communities and economies. damage has affected the regions thoroughly - not only public infrastructure (water supplies, sewage and electricity infrastructure) but also private property, businesses, agricultural land and forests.
in writing. – the severe natural disasters in bulgaria necessitated an urgency response and thus the support of the european solidarity fund. i would like to congratulate my colleague andery novakov on the report, which successfully reflects the situation and calls for the mobilisation of the eusf for a total amount of eur 16.3 million, of which eur 6.4 million for bulgaria, in order to grant the very much needed financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms rozier on the possible inclusion of non-agricultural products in the protection of geographical indications by the european union. the eu market is full of products that are part of the cultural, social and economic heritage of a place or region in the eu and that are rooted in traditional know-how and production methods. as regards their legal protection: non-agricultural products are industrial products and craft products which do not enjoy this kind of legal protection, and for this reason i agree with the rapporteur that the european commission should propose an instrument for their protection at european level.
in writing. ‒ the labelling of agricultural products and foodstuffs is subject to common european rules. the european union provides for the possibility of additional, supranational guarantee and protection of geographical indications, designations of origin of agricultural products and traditional specialities foods. examples of wines, cheeses or various meat products protected at european level are already known to the european consumer, who is increasingly looking for guaranteed origin goods. the bulgarian producers are also showing interest in the european protection system, as evidenced by the registration of several products. however, the current european legal framework does not provide for this possibility for non-agricultural products. this was found to be a failure for europe, known for its high-quality craft products. local craftsmanship is a testament to the uniqueness of each european region and an integral part of our cultural heritage. the resolution, adopted by an overwhelming majority, calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to establish a european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. i welcome good european ideas like this. the need for a new impetus in the development of traditional production methods and craft training is palpable. i hope that this european initiative will contribute to the preservation of the traditional craft sector and work towards its recognisable place on the european and international market.
in writing. – i support the geographical indications for agricultural products i see possible positive outcomes for the european economy. as one of the youngest members in parliament, but also as person who respects traditions, i believe that the combination between innovative ideas and the experience of production will lead to an economic success. currently, national laws are fragmented and offer different levels of protection within national and local transversal rules, but we must avoid such fragmentation as it undermines the european single market.
in writing. ‒ the principle of equal opportunities in the european community is fundamental. i, like my country, was reluctant to accept this report because if such measures are taken for one country, others must be able to benefit, and you know, bulgaria is in a difficult economic situation, one of the poorest in europe (not to say the poorest), and any help for us is welcome. in the end, i voted for the report, and i sincerely hope that everyone will show the same solidarity when we too need certain projects to be implemented quickly and similar measures should be approved for bulgaria. this report proposes measures to address greece's critical liquidity shortfall and to promote the rapid start of necessary european structural and investment funds projects.
in writing. – the consequences of the economic crisis have posed significant challenges to the greek economy, particularly due to the liquidity shortages and the lack of public funds available. the increased pre-financing and co-financing rates proposed by the commission are an immediate and necessary response given the urgency of the situation. however, the increased financial support must be accompanied by measures ensuring fiscal prudence and calling for responsible economic policy. this is an important precondition for the long-term and sustainable impact of investment, as well as a precondition for true european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to help workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing patterns in world trade. however, my group and i do not believe that the egf is the right instrument to introduce such policies, nor do we believe that it is an effective instrument that offers a value for money approach to reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market. and that's why i'm voting against it. i would stress, however, that i fully support measures to introduce policies that create growth and jobs. this report calls for €6.9 million for the 2 692 workers who lost their jobs at opel.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to help workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing patterns in world trade. however, my group and i do not believe that the egf is the right instrument to introduce such policies, nor do we believe that it is an effective instrument that offers a value for money approach to reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market. and that's why i'm voting against it. i would stress, however, that i fully support measures to introduce policies that create growth and jobs. this report calls for €6.2 million for the 4 881 workers who lost their jobs at ford/genk.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to help workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing patterns in world trade. however, my group and i do not believe that the egf is the right instrument to introduce such policies, nor do we believe that it is an effective instrument that offers a value for money approach to reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market. and that's why i'm voting against it. i would stress, however, that i fully support measures to introduce policies that create growth and jobs. this report calls for €5.2 million for 1 152 workers who lost their jobs in italy.
in writing. – alitalia’s case is a typical example of how external factors could endanger economic activity and employment in our regions. such is the case with 1 249 redundancies in gruppo alitalia were provoked. this was a textbook example case, where the help of the european globalisation adjustment fund was required. the financial contribution equals eur 1 414 848. the latter include active job search and training proposed by the italian authorities, including the re-employment scheme targeting dismissed workers over 50 years of age. regrettably, only 184 redundant workers will be targeted by the measures. in addition to that, preparatory activities, management, information and publicity and control and reporting - represent a relatively high share of the total costs (3.99%). last but not least, combination of various types of eu funding support in our regions is a step forward for a stronger and more competitive european economy.
in writing. ‒ politicians have long been exploring ways to improve the effectiveness of international development assistance. for decades, we have seen this development aid to the poorest countries squandered in corrupt deals and not reaching the people. this report is a step towards improving efficiency precisely because it looks at the role of local authorities in the development process. i support the rapporteur's view that decentralisation is needed in the union's external aid because this way aid will reach those most in need, help the development of small and medium-sized businesses and generally empower people at local level. that is why i strongly support this report by mrs eleni theoharus.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution aimed at strengthening the role of local authorities in developing countries in defining, organising and achieving development goals. despite the eu's continuing efforts to reduce global poverty and their effectiveness, further action is still needed to achieve sustainable and balanced development at global level. the involvement of local authorities in the process of building overall capacity to address the challenges facing developing countries is of paramount importance. decentralisation of cooperation would help to form a comprehensive and effective approach capable of covering the three main dimensions of development social, economic and environmental. dialogue between the eu, the national states and their local authorities would lead to a much more coherent and achievable vision for the future. i encourage the creation of partnership agreements between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries, and the channelling of additional resources to strengthen the capacity of decentralised bodies. i believe that real change can only be achieved when all stakeholders work together in this direction.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time since 2011, libya has a roadmap to begin a full transition. the efforts of the un special representative, bernardino león, must be commended again and the european union must continue to give him its full support. three things to note. the various parties must now take responsibility for the libyan people and also for ending a situation which has made the country a hotbed of threats to regional and international security. international pressure must be maintained from all sides. as you said, commissioner, the time is no longer for negotiating terms but for responsibility, for getting to work in the framework of a government of national unity. at the regional level and from the point of view of the european union, i emphasize the link with the sahel region. as i have said many times, this is a key region to prevent the expansion of the insecurity zones. i welcome the announcement of the increase in the budget of eucap sahel niger. nor should we lose sight of our support for the malian transition, whose future is also linked to the situation in libya, particularly in the fight against terrorism and trafficking. in this context, i take advantage of this debate to call for more substantial work by the european union with african partners to make intelligence systems operational on the continent. finally, i urge the european union and the united nations to continue to focus their efforts and support the various initiatives to bring the peace process to the local level, including women and minorities. more so in libya than elsewhere, the building of peace and a state is based on local power. commissioner, we are at a turning point in the libyan conflict, even as the international community is moving forward with the syrian issue. what is the smallest contribution that the european union can make to libya in order to maximize the chances of regional stabilization? the question remains open.
mr president, commissioner, the crisis in libya and the two warring parties have been among the main causes of some of the tragic events involving innocent people that we have witnessed in recent months. this is the place to congratulate the un special envoy for libya, bernardino leon, on his efforts to put together a peace plan for the country. of course, no such document is perfect. unfortunately, at this time, the two governments in libya have not given any indication that they intend to sign the agreement, and that should happen no later than october 20th. it is necessary for the european union, in the person of mrs mogherini, to make every effort to return the two sides to the negotiating table as soon as possible and to form a government of national unity. otherwise, we will show that diplomacy is not the way to succeed in the region and leave the door wide open for future tragedies.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, ms göringer de odenberg, for her report and for the compromise reached, which i and my colleagues from the group of european conservatives and reformists supported in the juri committee. as early as july 2011, a small claims instrument was adopted to improve and simplify civil and commercial litigation procedures. under this instrument, the commission is to present to the european parliament, the council and the european economic and social committee a detailed report reviewing the functioning of the european procedure which necessitated the review of the existing regulation. the objective of this review was to make the existing instrument more attractive and useful for european citizens, who are increasingly entering into financial relationships with a cross-border nature thanks to the functioning of the european free market. i believe that with our joint efforts we have succeeded in achieving this goal. i welcome the decision to increase the ceiling on the value of claims from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000 for civil and commercial cases of a crossborder nature. this will ensure effective protection of european citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. i support the other proposals which i believe contribute to improving the instrument and making it more applicable in practice.
madam president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their work on the report. i believe that the simplified small claims procedure is a step forward towards the introduction of common rules in european civil proceedings. the increase in the thresholds for admissibility of a claim to eur 5 000 is largely in line with economic reality. i am confident that this will help to improve the practical application of the regulation and that the maximum number of smes and citizens will benefit from it. the future inclusion of labour law claims in the scope of the regulation would give many citizens working in other member states a chance to have faster and cheaper access to justice. in this way, they will be able to make the most of the free movement of people in the european union, while having guaranteed legal protection. the possibilities for remote payment of court fees, for remote hearing of parties and for a simplified written procedure are very attractive and advantageous for small and medium-sized enterprises. in this way they will save time and money both on travel to court and on legal advice. i believe that this regulation will make it easier for our citizens to access justice and will help to resolve crossborder disputes more easily. i hope that small claims procedures will find wide application in the member states.
mr. chairman, what hasn't been said about the conflict in syria? it seems to me that we need to continue to concentrate on the new elements today so that we can participate constructively in this debate. i'll just stop at three. yes, first of all, two new countries were positioned. but it is very important for us that the international community, without setting conditions, but in constant dialogue and partnership, continues to seek a solution to the conflict. in our efforts, let us also not lose sight of the issue of the territorial integrity of syria. next up, yes, the islamic state is a common problem. but most importantly, isis is a serious threat to the region's disintegration and radicalization. a clear and concrete commitment by the countries of the region would therefore help to improve coordination and provide a perspective for overcoming the crisis. finally, the role of the european union. our role is to use our diplomacy to be a balancer in the difficult and probably long process of redistributing influence in the region. that's our strength in this conflict, given the realities.
in writing. dear colleagues, islamic state has been operating in syria for two and a half three years without any russian military strikes. so these countries that have been waging their geopolitical battle in syria, invested in the creation of the so-called "moderate opposition", militarized their military wings and provoked the civil war against assad, bear full responsibility for what has happened so far, and for the refugee crisis that has hit the eu. the islamic state in syria emerged from the chaos created by the country's civil war. russia has its geopolitical interests, and they are very clear: to keep the naval base in tartus and the airport in latakia. it's probably in russia's interest to move towards some sort of federalization of syria, but that doesn't negate the interference, the responsibility and the geopolitical interests of the other major powers. only military intervention in syria will solve the problem of the "islamic state" and normalize the situation in the country. any diplomatic solution to the syrian crisis is doomed to failure as long as the islamic state is in existence. this means only one thing: the eu, the us and russia must unite against the islamic state and agree on the future of assad and syria as a whole.
in writing. it is high time that international actors coordinate their actions to bring about genuine peace in syria and the region, allowing people to stay in their homes and return there. uncoordinated interventions lead to increased chaos and the danger of an even greater wave of migration, which begs the question of whether this is one of the goals of the russian intervention. we need an international conference with all the stakeholders as soon as possible. we in the eu must insist on this every day. on the one hand, in the short term, we need to preserve and restore statehood in syria on its entire territory, but in the medium term - without assad. the factors that create tension - war and conflict, human rights violations and economic deprivation - that motivate people to undertake dangerous transitions in search of a better life, must be removed. to remove these factors, military action is needed, but to find a lasting solution to the crisis, we need a political process. representatives of the syrian opposition, as well as assad, should be involved in such negotiations if they are to have any real success. in the context of the collective efforts to counter the crisis, the priority measure should be the establishment of a 'safe zone' which can be established in the northern part of syria. such a zone would allow the return of refugees.
madam president, a huge wave of refugees, mainly from war-torn syria, has flooded europe, and the member states are having problems with shelter capabilities. the schengen system is cracking under the weight of the refugees, and there is great divergence among the eu member states on how to react to the humanitarian crisis. there are two indispensable players in any solution to this crisis: the eu and turkey. in europe, understanding has grown that without turkey’s support no solution to the refugee crisis is possible. there is currently little that the eu can bring to the table without its strategic partner, despite some of the good intentions in the report on turkey. turkey has harboured 2.5 million refugees, providing all their immediate requirements and needs. the eu is only now facing these problems. the worsening security environment and the migrants’ problems are a wake-up call for action. this time, the eu cannot simply pour in money to make this go away. it has to act swiftly if waves of refugees are to be prevented. we urgently need a united european position, a long-term and improved strategy – which includes turkey – and strong action and solidarity to achieve real results. turkey has already shown responsibility: now it is the eu’s turn.
mr president, turkey has a key role to play in north-mediterranean relations. this is why we need to strengthen our cooperation and common mechanisms to resolve conflicts in the region. i'll focus on three aspects. first of all, turkey has done and is doing a lot for the refugees who are on its territory. it is important that we continue to act together within the european union to strengthen border controls and the fight against organised crime. what is happening on the land border with bulgaria is a good example of successful cooperation in these two areas and it should be welcomed. second, the proposal for a buffer zone in syria. the idea makes sense, subject to discussion. but before that, let's be clear: this has to be done by giving a broad international mandate and we have to answer questions like 'who is providing security?', 'how is the security of the people guaranteed?', 'how do we make sure that the people who are in this territory do not become the target of radicalized groups?' finally, visa liberalisation for turkish citizens will undoubtedly send a strong signal to turkish businesses, and the positive consequences for the european union will also be imminent. in conclusion, i welcome the deepening of the dialogue between the european union and turkey. we know the challenges they face, but it's important now to focus on the important things: the crisis in the region and managing the migration flows very intelligently. this means cooperation between all stakeholders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the colleagues in this room have repeatedly said that turkey was a strategic partner without which the immigration crisis could not be resolved. but it seems that these colleagues have not seen, have not heard that turkey is directly involved in the war in syria, supporting the "islamic state" by bombing the positions of the kurdish peshmerga. apparently these colleagues here didn't see that turkey was actually funding isis by illegally buying oil from them and thus providing aid to this terrorist organization. it is clear that these colleagues have not seen or heard of the genocide and violence that the turkish state has been inflicting on its own kurdish people for the past 50 years, forcing them to leave turkey in different directions. these colleagues are clearly unaware that turkey is today trying to disrupt the creation of a kurdish state. all of this says one very simple thing turkey is not a european country. because maybe turkey is not a democracy right now, it's a dictatorship. that's where they take away freedom of speech, that's where they put journalists in jail. ladies and gentlemen, this turkey is not a european country and it has no place in this european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from the creation of the european union to the present day, the situation in the region and in the world has never been more dynamic and unpredictable. despite the difficult political environment, the turkish side bears the brunt of the ongoing conflict and refugee wave, and the government has responded in the most adequate and responsible way to ensure the security of more than two million people. the country has a clear euro-atlantic position, in full agreement with our nato partners, and has a leading role in the rapid resolution of wars in the middle east. of course, europe has its own rules and criteria and we should not turn a blind eye to any deviation from our principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this, however, should not make us judges, but rather we should seek to reconcile these differences through the power of constructive dialogue. i therefore believe that it is more necessary than ever to deepen integration and cooperation with turkey, because only a common approach is a possible solution to the challenges faced.
in writing. ‒ i supported this technical report because tunisia was the first country to be embraced by the 'arab spring' and three years later it remains an example for other countries with its democratic transition. the country already enjoys strong trade links with the eu, which will be further strengthened through the euro-mediterranean agreement. this treaty aims to remove barriers to trade and investment in order to create a free trade area in the region. almost all countries in the region, with the exception of syria and libya, have signed similar association agreements with the eu. through the euro-mediterranean agreement, the eu provides support to the countries in their economic development and democratic transition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms göringer de odenberg on the european small claims procedure. i agree that this instrument should become more attractive and useful for european citizens, who are increasingly entering into financial relationships with a cross-border nature thanks to the functioning of the european free market. i welcome the decision to increase the ceiling on the value of claims from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000 for civil and commercial cases of a crossborder nature. this will ensure effective protection of european citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. i also support the other proposals which i believe contribute to improving the instrument and making it more applicable in practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i strongly support the shift towards improving air quality in europe. of course, fuel plants and so on are important to the economy, but technological advances have given us new tools to limit the effects of such air pollutants. my country is particularly affected by this problem and it is important to establish mandatory limits. so far, there has been no proper regulation of this issue in bulgaria, and therefore we now rank as one of the most affected countries in terms of air quality. we must ensure health and safety measures at all levels and for all citizens by avoiding the misuse of our beautiful natural heritage. the creation of mandatory limits on air pollutants will help to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, aware of the seriousness of the problem of high levels of environmental pollution, adopted a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the limitation of harmful emissions into the air. despite significant reductions in harmful emissions in recent decades, pollution levels in some parts of europe are still alarmingly high. this requires immediate measures to put an end to such practices once and for all. the directive focuses in particular on medium combustion plants, because they are the only ones not covered by european regulation and because of their growing influence as a factor responsible for pollution. medium combustion plants should be designed and operated in a way that promotes energy efficiency and their operation should be subject to control by the member state. any medium combustion plant should only be operational if it is licensed or registered by the competent authority. i am convinced that this directive is the right step towards the overall objective of the safety and well-being of european citizens and the careful balance between consumer health, environmental protection and economic activity in europe.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of legislation to limit emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (from 1 to 50 mw), for which there were no environmental limits until now. over 143 000 such installations are in operation in the european union and make a significant contribution to air pollution by nitrogen and sulphur oxides and dust. the most important aspect of this legislation is to take adequate account of the small capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises operating such heating installations for heating schools, hospitals and public and residential buildings to adapt to the new requirements. the new installation restrictions will take effect in three years. for existing installations with a heat capacity of up to 5 mw, the maximum emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and dust will be effective from 2025. the smallest installations, those with a capacity of 1 to 5 mw, most of which belong to small enterprises, will have to start complying with the limits from 2030. this provides sufficient time to plan and find the means to modernise the plants. taking into account the statistics on air pollution in a number of cities in our country, the introduction of these restrictions will undoubtedly contribute to improving air quality, to healthier living conditions for citizens and especially children.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, as i am all for fighting fraud and corruption. this is also one of the main problems that bulgaria still faces on a daily basis. if we want to counter these problems, we need to be more rigorous and more effective in monitoring the processes involved, as well as raising awareness of the more technical side of such problems.
in writing. – i congratulate mrs ingeborg gräßle for her report showcasing professionalism. 80% of the eu budget is managed by the member states under the cohesion policy. therefore, the union’s budget is a long-term eu growth engine. key instruments for the achievement of this goal are the european structural and investment funds (esif). in this regard, the european parliament should be the watchdog guaranteeing that the eu budget is used in the best possible way. we should remain vocal on ensuring financial prudency and result orientation of the eu budget. regarding performance, we should measure project outcomes (useful results for citizens and businesses). for example, measuring the economic benefits of a road, or a bridge, not their length and features. improving financial management and performance is part of a larger effort – to cut the red tape in eu funding and to fight fraud.
mr president, commissioner, according to steve jobs success is about connecting the dots. i hope that you forgive me by starting off with a quote from an american and not a european entrepreneur, but actually this quote comes from a place where smes get about five times more funding from the capital markets than european companies do. the success of the european economy really does depend on connecting the dots between the individual markets and on unleashing the free movement of capital. this is how i personally see the capital markets union (cmu), as the tool that connects the dots between the capital markets of 28 individual states. i would also like to emphasise three points, out of the six proposed immediate actions, that are particularly important in my view. the first is connecting the cmu with the juncker plan. i am happy to see that support for the juncker plan is priority number one. only through the combination of both for europe can we unlock and diversify financing quickly and as soon as possible. my second point is about connecting achievements and aspirations or, to put it differently, what we have done so far and what we aim at in the future. the call for evidence on the impact of existing reforms is, i believe, also a very important step. it will definitely create an overall regulatory environment that strikes the right balance between managing risk and supporting growth. my last point is connecting and analysing success stories. the commission has proposed gathering best practices in non-bank sme funding, an exercise that i personally have been endorsing for a long time. that is why i would be curious to receive more information on the process and the timeline of the proposed research: it would be very much appreciated.
in writing.– without an integrated payments market on the european level, we cannot have a functioning internal market for goods and services, nor a digital single market or a truly competitive eu economy. in the new economic model and the modern european society, an increasing number of citizens prefer to shop online, yet only 1 in 7 completes purchases across borders. this is a consequence of the fragmentation along national lines we see in important areas of the payments market, such as card, internet and mobile payments. the revision of the payment services directive will change that. it will also bolster e-commerce and provide significant advantages for the european consumers, whose interest is at the heart of every piece of legislation we in the eu institutions produce. i therefore welcome the new measures contained in psd ii, such as enhanced legal protection, information on transactions and unconditional refund in case of unauthorised payments and fraud. by creating a competitive level playing field we will provide consumers with greater choice, transparency and security when making retail payments. on the business side, this certainty and stability will allow for competition and innovation, and thus more opportunities for europeans to reap the benefits of the digital single market.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the russian side is pressing ahead with its stated intentions to build a gas pipeline bypassing ukraine, which would allow the termination of gas transit through that country. the agreement between gazprom and five european companies to double the capacity of nord stream is not only a step in this direction, but also poses a significant risk to the security of gas supply for all of south-east europe. the unilateral termination of the south stream project and the serious difficulties encountered in negotiating the turkish stream, not least due to the different positions of russia and turkey on syria, the lack of gas connections between the countries in this region and the weak progress in the implementation of the southern gas corridor, make the transit of russian gas through ukraine the only alternative at the moment. at a time when we are building a european energy union, we are demanding a united voice on energy security, we have clear priorities to follow in relation to the vulnerable region of south east europe, the corporate bargaining for nord stream 2 is putting the pan-european energy policy to the test. 'nord stream 2' clearly demonstrates that much greater coordination is needed between member states in energy relations with third-country suppliers, while avoiding the reduction of energy security in some regions of the european union at the expense of corporate interests of companies in other regions.
mr president, in order to improve the european labour market, it is important that gender equality policy is not only on paper but also in practice. it is a market need that europe's women be economically independent, be paid fairly, have a work-life balance and know that they have no ceiling to running companies. to this we must add a real sectoral balance. it requires improving women's access to typically male occupations and increasing men's access to feminized occupations, such as in education. in bulgaria, low pay acts as a barrier to young people, and mainly men, to pursue the teaching profession. the opportunities for promoting gender balance in professions like this are real. and we should take advantage of them because the two genders contribute differently to the system, to the education and upbringing of the students, including gender equality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is the greatest threat facing the world today. it threatens all citizens, regardless of their ethnicity or religion, and the barbarism of boko haram has repeatedly proven this. for several years now, the terrorist organization has been a growing threat to the stability of nigeria and the west african region. boko haram continues to abduct children and women and use them for suicide bombings, expanding its operations into neighboring countries. in this context, i would like to support the recent statement by the european commission on the need for additional funds to stimulate emergency humanitarian aid in the region. it is also necessary, together with the international community, to provide the necessary support to the newly elected president of nigeria to adopt strong measures to protect the civilian population. special emphasis should be placed on the protection of women and children and on providing assistance to victims of the atrocities of the terrorist organisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms tajani as i believe that it complements the existing framework in favour of consumers by providing them with better choice and promoting competition and transparency, while also focusing on consumer security, especially when making retail payments. legal clarity and equal treatment for all market participants shall be guaranteed. those objectives should be achieved by ensuring a level playing field between all service providers and a regulatory framework covering innovative forms of payment services and instruments. i support the objectives of the proposal to update the existing framework to the dynamically changing environment of electronic payments, taking into account in particular the development of e-commerce to further develop a broad eu market for electronic payments that will enable all market participants to benefit from the benefits of the eu internal market.
in writing. – the revision of the payment services directive will bolster e-commerce and provide significant advantages for european consumers, whose interest lies at the heart of every piece of legislation that we in the eu institutions produce. i therefore welcome the new measures contained in psd 2, such as enhanced legal protection, information on transactions and unconditional refund in case of unauthorised payments or fraud.
in writing. ‒ what happened in spain, and the thousands of tragic cases of citizens who lost part of their savings and for the most part lost everything, could have been prevented. this resolution calls for a legislative initiative to harmonise mortgage contractual terms and debt settlement procedures with a view to strengthening consumer protection across the eu. i agree in part with this because it is necessary, but i think it should be done at national rather than european union level, and that is why i abstained. yet, banking abuses must be prevented!
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this question because i do not believe that the shortcomings have been addressed and presented properly. i also believe that these issues need to be addressed at different levels, taking into account factors such as culture, ethnicity, traditions and other concomitant factors contributing to the current situation. simply setting goals and providing financial support is not the answer.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this proposal simply because i believe that many of the ideas do not fall within the scope of this report and are issues of a very different nature. to deal with them, i don't believe that the top-down approach is the ideal solution. there are still too many substantive issues to be resolved before we can even consider creating binding pan-european rules and guidelines. we also have to consider factors like culture, ethnicity, history, etc., which are very important. that is why i cannot support the report as it stands.
mr president, i am addressing mr schmidt on the eve of the council meeting which must resolutely decide to amend the dublin agreement. in its current form, it is in complete contradiction to the temporary and permanent mechanism of relocation of refugees. there is no point, for example, in a country like bulgaria relocating 800 refugees for the next two years, when 1,000 people are coming in every week, who, under dublin, have to stay in the country. there is confusion and misunderstanding in society about the nature and functioning of hotspots. citizens in the eu's external border states fear that their countries will become a sort of ghetto for migrants who are detained there even though they do not want to stay. europeans need an information and awareness campaign. i would also like to address the commission, even though mr juncker is no longer with us. we must have a proposal for common border controls at the external borders of the european union, not just the schengen area. the additional budget and human resources for the european agencies frontex, europol and easo are a first step, but not enough. we must all tackle the migration crisis together, and european citizens will be our allies if they feel safe.
(microphone malfunction at the beginning of the speech)... values such as respect for human rights and dignity, including the rights of various minorities. unfortunately, in recent years, the union has steadily started to depart from these fundamental values, giving voice to nation-populism, xenophobia and hate speech. in many of our member countries, including my home country, the republic of bulgaria, there are ultra-nationalist and fascist political parties that systematically sow hatred. it's not my assessment. it's the council of europe's. with great concern, we should note the numerous acts of vandalism against religious buildings and representatives of religious denominations, as well as the increasing language of hate in the online space. this trend is intensifying with the growing wave of refugees in europe. now is the time to ask ourselves the question: is the european union moving away from its civilized choice? i welcome the commission's decision to fund projects to promote tolerance and mutual respect. i also believe that it is necessary to present, together with the fundamental rights agency, a new strategy to combat xenophobia.
in writing. as a representative of a nationalist and conservative party, i strongly oppose any claim that political parties like mine incite islamophobic and xenophobic attitudes. neoliberals denounce us as intolerant just because we oppose the division of citizens into equals and the marginalized, with the latter having more rights than the former. the law should treat everyone equally and not favor one over the other, which actually discriminates and incites intolerance among citizens. european citizens do not want to be treated as second-class citizens. the union's policy of prioritising and protecting certain groups of people to the detriment of others further contributes to the spread of islamophobia, anti-semitism and intolerance. on the other hand, there is very little talk of the unfettered distribution of hate-inspired books. go to the frankfurt international book fair and you will find a lot of books by arab publishers that incite anti-semitism. are these the european values we are striving for? is this freedom of speech and opinion? i, as a european citizen, am firmly against the radicalisation of societies in one direction or another. but radicalization is not the cause of the rise of islamophobia and anti-semitism, it's the consequence. the primary cause is inequality before the law. we live in a union where the law and the law is the same for all.
in writing. freedom of expression, freedom to hold different ideas or beliefs, freedom to be different are all expressions of the principles on which the european project is built. and while fear of difference is a normal human reaction, we must be able to understand our differences more and rely on them, rather than on primary reactions like fear and hatred, if we are to continue to be a mature european society, based on the traditional human values that we all aspire to.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms kirkhope on access to the visa information system (vis) for enquiries by the competent authorities of the member states and europol for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist acts and other serious crimes, as the new council decision updates the existing legal framework. i also support the objectives of this decision to ensure an appropriate and effective exchange of information between member states and europol in order to combat cross-border crime. in the context of cross-border crime, and in particular the growing problem of illegal immigration, it is important to work for greater security in the member states and to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on the draft council implementing decision on access to the visa information system for enquiries by the competent authorities of the member states and europol for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. i believe that the european authorities and the authorities of the member states are called upon to cooperate effectively and to exchange information in a coordinated manner in order to guarantee the highest possible level of security for all people in the territory of the european union. in addition, respect for fundamental human rights is equally important, in particular with regard to personal freedoms, the protection of personal data and the need for all security measures to be implemented in accordance with the requirements and practice of european law.
in writing. ‒ although i am against the quota redistribution of refugees and the designation of these people as refugees in general, i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument because it was created specifically to be used in such special cases and to respond quickly when needed. as the quota redistribution is not a permanent solution to the problem, the current funds mobilised will only cover part of the costs that await us. the real financial burden will fall on the member states themselves and their budgets, because the process of integrating these people will be very long, we will have to pay for their training for years and we will have to pay incredible amounts for social benefits. who's gonna cover these expenses? the amount the eu will provide for each relocated refugee is symbolic of the cost we will all have to pay. poor bulgaria can't afford to have illegal immigrants and refugees.
in writing. immigration and terrorism are among the biggest challenges facing the eu for europeans. this was also indicated by the most recent eurobarometer data, which showed that concerns about these issues had increased by one third compared to last year. our citizens are giving us a clear signal that we must take timely and concrete measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the allocation of additional funds of eur 401.3 million is a clear step in the right direction and i was happy to support the report. i believe that this financial support should be followed by long-term budgetary measures to tackle the problem, which may also require a review of the seven-year eu budgetary framework.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal to adjust the eu budget for 2015 because the european agencies frontex, europol and the european asylum support office play a key role in resolving the refugee crisis and urgently need additional funds. the additional funds allocated under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund are also of great importance and will support member states. the first fund will improve the capacity to receive refugees, and the second will improve border management. for bulgaria, these funds are of great importance because we need additional support for our reception centres and for the construction of the eu's external border. as regards the funds allocated to the regional fund for syria and to the un agencies, i believe that the eu cannot meet the needs of these agencies alone, nor should it be solely responsible for what is happening. the whole international community must come together and provide funds, because as the commission's plan for the quota redistribution of refugees is a temporary measure and will not solve the problem, so the present funds are only the beginning of the financial burden that we will all bear as a result of the policy we are pursuing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because we are facing an unprecedented wave of refugees and the sooner we realise that there is no national solution to this complex problem, but only a common approach, the sooner we can help thousands of children and mothers. this is not only a european crisis, but also a regional and global one, and that requires that we include in the solution all the countries neighbouring the eu, which are bearing a large part of the burden of the refugee wave. in this context, i welcome the decision to relocate 120 000 refugees within the eu and the decision to provide assistance to 2 million refugees in turkey. we also need to increase resources to deal with the refugee flow and to review the seven-year eu budgetary framework to implement long-term budgetary measures to deal with the problem. of course, these measures must be combined with initiatives aimed at addressing the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ as for this report, i have decided to abstain from voting on the resolution as a whole. at the same time, i support some of the compromises that have been made. in my view, the various aspects of the unrealistically high 2030 targets and the mortgaging of public money for the green climate fund (gcf) are not only unattainable but also harmful to the economies of the member states. the paris protocol is not a problem here. it is about setting realistic and achievable targets for all eu countries. i don't see the serious economic and industrial issues that countries like poland and bulgaria are struggling with on a daily basis reflected in this report, and in order to achieve a good report, they are key.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, in april we postponed the decision on granting discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) to the financial year 2013. however, after receiving at the end of june a report from eit providing information on the progress since the previous one, we can draw the following conclusions about the institute in several different areas. in the domain of legality and regularity of transactions the institute has improved the quality of audit certificates. the use of a new methodology has further improved the quality of ex—ante and ex—post verifications. the internal procedures of the institute already fully comply with the respective public procurement rules. further to the consultancy performed by the institute’s internal audit capability, a number of activities have been implemented. in the area of budget and financial management there are positive changes related to improved planning and monitoring procedures, significantly improved absorption capacity of the beneficiaries and actions taken to alleviate the high staff turnover. as a result of the activities of the commission’s internal audit service we also observe positive developments, especially in the implementation of the elements of the institute’s action plan. by the end of 2015 it is expected the bulk of these actions will be completed. in the coming months we envisage the publication of a special report of the european court of auditors which will shed light on the ability of the institute to provide innovation in the eu, where i would like to discuss the distribution within the european union of the different sectors of knowledge and innovation communities. having regard to the positive changes, we support granting the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute’s budget and approve the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013.
ecr), in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary meeting called by juncker on 25 october finally took decisions to the benefit of the member states, namely a plan of 17 operational measures. one of the most important is that it 'reaffirms the principle of refusing entry to third-country nationals who do not agree to apply for international protection'. it is well known that migrants do not register in the peripheral eu countries because they want to reach the highly developed northern eu member states. i hope this measure will discourage migrants and traffickers and reduce the flow of illegal migrants. the other very important measure, which unfortunately does not bind turkey because it was not invited to the meeting, is to "discourage the movement of refugees and migrants to the borders of other countries or regions without informing those countries". we all know very well that turkey is the country that is organising the trafficking and the flow of migrants to the european union on a massive scale. the european union must urge the turkish authorities to limit the activities of traffickers to the maximum, to cooperate in the fight against them and to properly implement the readmission agreement signed with the union. only then will turkey prove that it deserves to be a partner of the european union.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to repeal the two acts in question. in order to achieve better lawmaking and greater transparency in european legislation, it is important to keep a constant review of european law. as both acts were taken into account in new commission and council regulations, and due to the fact that the envisaged temporary scheme ended in 2010, their practical application is useless. for that reason, i agree that the only logical next step is to cancel them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ making the existing services agreement with switzerland compatible with existing eu legislation and oecd global standards is an important and welcome step. we need to be very careful when it comes to privacy, information sharing and democratic control, especially when we consider the current issues surrounding digital infrastructures and increasingly digitised economies. it is necessary to ensure that the exchange of information takes place in the most secure and efficient way possible, ensuring transparency and legal clarity, in particular for citizens who rely on the protection and preservation of their personal data. in addition, given the fact that switzerland has long been known for its strict privacy rules involving a very complex set of rules, it is necessary to adjust the existing rules in order to make them compatible with each other and to avoid inadvertently creating loopholes.
ecr), in writing. ‒ following successful negotiations, the report shows a balanced approach which i believe is vital for mutual cooperation on issues such as taxation. the existence of a single applicable standard for the automatic exchange of financial information within the eu will ensure greater efficiency and transparency. when it comes to non-eu territories, i welcome the compromise reached on the scope of the commission's negotiating mandate. in my view, the mandate should be subject to the explicit agreement of the member states. like fiscal policy, it is a matter of national governance. a mandate for the ec in this area would affect the sovereignty of the member states on this key issue. i therefore strongly welcome the final report, as i believe it reflects a balanced approach.
ecr), in writing. ‒ as regards the fight against terrorism and organised crime, crossborder cooperation and the necessary database are a key element in tackling them. i welcome the council report which states that sweden has complied with all the requirements regarding the protection of personal data and in particular fingerprints. i welcome sweden's accession to the cooperation system and consider it an important step for the security of the union, especially in a situation such as the present one, where the eu is facing one of the greatest security challenges it has ever faced since its creation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ as regards the fight against terrorism and organised crime, crossborder cooperation and the necessary database are a key element in tackling them. i welcome the council report which states that belgium has complied with all the requirements concerning the protection of personal data and in particular of dactyloscopic data (fingerprints). i welcome the accession of belgium to the cooperation system and consider it an important step for the security of the union, especially in a situation such as the present one, where the eu is facing one of the greatest challenges to its security since its creation.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a council decision on the introduction of automated data exchange for fingerprints in sweden, belgium and poland, as this will achieve better synergies in terms of information exchange. i am convinced of this because i believe that information exchange and cooperation are just as important as data collection and that possible measures to improve data exchange should be supported in full respect of existing provisions and case law on the protection of personal data.
ecr), in writing. ‒ as regards the fight against terrorism and organised crime, crossborder cooperation and the necessary database are a key element in tackling them. i welcome the council report which states that poland has complied with all the requirements concerning the protection of personal data and in particular of dactyloscopic data (fingerprints). i welcome poland's accession to the cooperation system and consider it an important step for the security of the union, especially in a situation such as the present one, where the eu is facing one of the greatest challenges to its security since its creation.
ecr), in writing. - i am absolutely in favour of this report. this reform clarifies and improves the situation of consumers, while reducing barriers to information for tour operators and proposing improvements to national insolvency protection schemes. what has not existed so far in the package travel directive and had to be adapted to developments and changes in the market is the lack of consumer protection when buying a 'package service'. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the conditions for the granting of the aid are met.
in writing. ‒ mr president, since the adoption of the package travel directive in 1990, the market for travel services has developed impressively as a result of the opportunities offered to consumers by the widespread use of the internet. however, many of the tourist services provided were in the 'grey area'. the need for a review of legislation in this area is evident. i believe that the proposal to update the current european union rules on package holidays meets the needs of both consumers and businesses in this fast-moving sector by adapting the current regulation to the current market specificities and by addressing legislative deficiencies. from a consumer perspective, the proposed amendment provides clearer protection for the rights of european consumers. furthermore, the proposed amendment establishes a level playing field for operators by removing obstacles to cross-border trade. i therefore support the amendment to the package travel directive and believe that it will improve our economy by allowing the tourism business to expand its reach while improving consumer protection through clearer and harmonised rules.
ecr), in writing. ‒ end of roaming from june 2017! it's about time! i support this proposal, but more importantly, in the meantime, we need to monitor the prices of international calls with the different operators, and will they not increase to compensate? i think that's a topic that will continue to be discussed. the report also included a section on the 'open internet' debate. the new rules ensure that when service providers manage web traffic, they do so on a non-competitive basis to ensure the openness of the internet.
ppe), in written form. ‒ my colleagues in the european parliament and i overwhelmingly approved the legislative package, which includes the final abolition of roaming charges and the guarantee of net neutrality. i am convinced that this is an important step towards the removal of the barriers to the digital single market and a more connected europe. work on the phasing-out of call, text and mobile internet charges started in 2007. from april 2016, prices will be reduced by almost 75% and from 15 june 2017 there will be no more roaming in the union. decisions such as these illustrate the direct benefits of well-designed european supranational solutions, which have the real potential to facilitate and improve the daily lives of millions of european citizens. last but not least, this is the union at its finest.
ppe), in written form. ‒ i was very pleased to vote for the adoption of the report by my colleague pilar del castillo and the historic compromise reached with the council on the abolition of roaming charges in the european union from mid-2017. although delayed, as it was planned to happen as early as this year, eu citizens will finally be free of a discriminatory practice and be able to use their mobile phones in other member states as well as in their own countries without fear of excessive bills from mobile operators. starting next april, we'll be able to talk from abroad for no more than 10 cents, send text messages for no more than 4 cents, and exchange data for no more than 10 cents per megabyte. the loss of net neutrality, which has been a major concern for many citizens and businesses, has been regulated in a very acceptable way by requiring service providers to treat all internet traffic equally. the abolition of roaming charges is also a decisive step towards the creation of the digital single market, which is one of the eu's grand projects, alongside the creation of a european energy union. such projects are essential to maintain europe's unity and attractiveness and to ensure its prosperity.
ecr), in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee's opinion on this dossier, my colleagues and i have made efforts to limit the scope of the directive, so as not to create an information exchange system which, instead of facilitating public administrations, would overwhelm them with processing documentation. unfortunately, the amendments we adopted were not reflected in the report adopted by our colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. for this reason, and because i do not believe that the final compromise will achieve its objectives, i voted against the report.
in writing. – the two dossiers (eniac and artemis) for discharge 2013 were considered jointly in the committee on budgetary control since in 2014 artemis and eniac have been merged into one agency- ecsel ju. however, the court of auditors (coa) has risen up particular shortcomings of the two. first of all, the coa issued a qualified opinion for the third consecutive year questioning the ex post audit strategy with respect to the legality and regularity of the transactions of the eniac ju. furthermore, it criticized artemis ju on failing to respect the 2014 recommendations of the discharge authority and did not adopt a comprehensive policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interests. considering all that, the european parliament postponed the grant of discharge 2013 of the agencies on the 29th april 2015 and required a new more detailed report. after measuring the progress in the latter, including the new methodology for residual error rate estimation, a discharge was finally given. however, in my opinion, we need to finance fewer but bigger priorities keeping in mind efficiency and results. europe does not like useless projects. this should be taken into account by ms, but by institutions as well.
ecr), in writing. ‒ my position in principle on the discharge of any part of the budget is shared by that of my ecr group, namely that it should not be granted until the budget as a whole has received a positive assessment from the court of auditors. in this case, the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, found for the second consecutive year a lack of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the operations relating to grants.
in writing. – on the 29 april, the european parliament decided to postpone his grant for discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the year 2013 due to numerous shortcomings in the reporting and fulfilment of budget obligations. among the most serious shortcomings the rapporteur highlights the combined error rate regarding the audit issues and material procurement errors (between 2% and 3% of total 2013 expenditure, which is above the materiality threshold of 2%), the insufficient quality of ex- ante and ex-post verifications, irregular public procurement procedures etc. consequently, the european parliament required a more detailed report considering the problematic issues. the latter was provided to the committee on budgetary control (cont) on the 29th june. the newly introduced complementary report already included serious progress on the ex-ante verifications for grant expenditure, redesigned procurement procedures since 2013 with a proactive approach towards the detection of errors etc. the collaboration of the eit agency and willingness to improve were taken into account by cont and the second report already supported the grant of discharge. this is a clear sign how work between institutions should be simplified and intensified. europe should use its budget focusing on results, integrity and producing higher returns.
ecr), in writing. ‒ here too i voted against the discharge of the eniac joint undertaking. my position in principle on the discharge of any part of the budget is shared by that of my ecr group, namely that it should not be granted until the budget as a whole has received a positive assessment from the court of auditors. the previous court of auditors report contains potential conflicts of interest and should be cleared.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's proposal not to discharge the european council and the council for the implementation of the 2015 budget was supported by me. my position in principle on the discharge of any part of the budget is shared by that of my ecr group, namely that it should not be granted until the budget as a whole has received a positive assessment from the court of auditors. but there are additional complications here: the council did not cooperate with parliament and did not have the necessary dialogue.
in writing. – for the seventh year the european parliament postpones its decision for grating discharge for the council. for the seventh year same questions have been raised and again more detailed information has been required. many questions are left unanswered. with the lisbon treaty, the european parliament gained co-decision budget power and the other institutions should refer to that. my appeal is that rules should be applicable to everyone. we, the institutions should be an example for the ms. how can we expect integrity, accountability and fast reactions from them, if we don't fulfil the criteria ourselves? our role is not only to talk the talk but to walk the walk to a better eu budget and results for the people in europe.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the rapporteur that the international response to the humanitarian crisis has been ineffective and too slow. the eu must strengthen its role as a major player in development not only for humanitarian reasons but also because this is a european neighbourhood policy issue. the continuing state of structural underfunding and lack of investment in public health is detrimental not only to local communities but also to society and economies as a whole. by failing to respond adequately to a so-called 'local problem', international actors are not only undermining humanitarian principles but are also causing additional problems.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the volkswagen scandal affects germany first and foremost and should be investigated at national level. i agree that the systematic use of illegal devices has a serious impact on the economy and the internal market. i also strongly support that there should be an investigation into this matter and that volkswagen should be held accountable for what happened. however, i do not think it is appropriate for the european commission to conduct this investigation, despite the violations of the european directives on maximum emissions from cars. an investigation directly by the european commission would infringe national sovereignty and interfere with a scandal falling within the national jurisdiction of the states. the right and most effective way to deal with this problem in the automotive industry is through investigations and cooperation programmes at national level.
alde), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the european union is a guarantor of high environmental standards and if decisive action is not taken, the current scandal risks damaging the reputation and competitiveness of the entire sector. the automotive industry is one of the key drivers of growth and innovation in europe and the commission and member states need to restore consumer confidence quickly through concrete action. it is necessary to review the current regime and to propose new measures to ensure that the application of eu regulations can be carried out effectively.
mr president, the budget for 2016 has been discussed several times regarding its priorities and the need to increase financing in key areas, and all in the context of the existing economic situation of an unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. unfortunately, the council decision to make some cuts both in commitment and payment appropriations does not correspond to the political priorities nor to the unfavourable environment. that is why we are reversing the cuts made by the council. furthermore we propose that commitment and payment appropriations be raised in several key areas, supporting the full use of all flexibility tools available in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in order to provide an initial response to the immigration crisis we need to increase by almost eur 1.2 billion the commitments under the headings security and citizenship and global europe, in comparison with the commission’s original proposal. in order to overcome the weakness of the eu’s economy almost eur 1.9 billion in commitment appropriations are envisaged for the smart and inclusive growth heading. this financing supports continuation of the youth employment initiative, restores the original pre-efsi profile of horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility in line with the commitment the committee on budgets made during the efsi negotiations, as well as additional allocations to small and medium-enterprises. in relation to the ongoing crisis affecting european farmers and in order to support the dairy sector, we have proposed increasing funding by eur 500 million under the heading sustainable growth: natural resources, in line with the measures announced by the council and the commission in september, thus supporting the main goals of the budget – to boost innovation, create jobs, deal more effectively with migration and strengthening the global role of the european union. we should not forget the commitments in the implementation of the payment plan agreed by parliament, the council and the commission back in may 2015.
our role as institutions should be to turn this 150 billion budget not just into accounting balances, but into visible and tangible investments. comparing this budget project to some of the previous ones, i have to say that it's significantly better for several reasons. one is that we have fewer priorities, but we have bigger priorities. the second is that we base the budget not on some imaginary achievements, but on concrete results, so that we have something to show people outside. last but not least, we need very strong communication with the people outside, so that they understand that we are not just here to show some numbers, but to report as many projects as possible with as many visible results.
mariya gabriel, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, madam high representative, i should like to begin by congratulating you on your personal commitment to this matter. your messages today are very clear, although we would like to hear more good news. however, the strength of your messages is their pragmatism and realism. as you have pointed out, the recent resurgence of violence and tension should be seen in a different light, and perhaps not just as an obstacle to the resumption of negotiations, but rather as an opportunity to further engage both sides in the interests of the people. similarly, internal divisions and extremist views in both camps cannot be invoked as obstacles to concrete progress. but i think today it is equally important to stress that the leaders of each side must demonstrate their will for peace, not only to the international community, but also in their internal speeches by engaging citizens towards a peaceful two-state solution. in addition, you warned us that if the internal israeli or palestinian context does not seem favourable, we must look very carefully at what is happening in the regional context. but again, maybe there are opportunities here. on the one hand, we have the commitment of the arab countries to the fight against terrorism, and on the other hand, we have recently had the nuclear agreement with iran. perhaps we should ask ourselves whether there are any possible levers for the resumption of peace negotiations. moreover, the quartet has recently stressed the role of jordan, as you have also said. but let us also think about the arab peace initiative, launched in 2002, and what might follow. i would therefore like to thank you again and to conclude by assuring you of the full support of this house for all your work on this matter.
mr president, madam high representative, yes, the last few months have shown that the international community must be vigilant and constantly mobilized if there is to be real progress towards peace in south sudan. i would like to emphasize four elements. firstly, the parties to the conflict must make a real commitment, both in the context of the peace agreement of 26 august and in that of the document signed on monday under the auspices of the african union. the security aspect requires that both sides refrain from taking measures which are contrary to the spirit of the peace process. secondly, the role of south sudan's regional partners and the international community remains key. on the one hand, for igad and the african union to monitor closely the implementation of the agreement, and on the other hand, to deal with the humanitarian horror. the international community must continue to help the displaced and those threatened by famine. child protection must also remain a priority of international aid for this country today and tomorrow. thirdly, the fight against impunity. it is a decisive element in the construction of south sudan, including the demobilization of the armed forces and the creation of a single army. those who have committed serious human rights violations must not be allowed to re-enter the army or to be part of a transitional government, especially when we know the scale of sexual violence in this conflict. finally, the union must continue to keep open the possibility for south sudan to ratify the cotonou agreement, which will be another tool for the democratic construction of that state.
madam chairman, i have always believed that one should speak when one has something to say. that is why i initiated this oral question back in june and i am glad that we are debating it today. ask any engineer out there, and they'll tell you that the simpler something is, the better it works. that is why i want simpler rules for european funds, simpler rules for the management and control of european projects. i'm sure that's what the business wants, and i'm sure that's what the people outside want. i want to believe that the reports, resolutions and questions that we adopt in this chamber have a real impact on the people of europe, on business in europe. i would like to congratulate commissioner kreutz on the efforts he is making to reduce the administrative burden, to reduce the bureaucracy. unfortunately, we need results as soon as possible, not at the end of the programming period. let's adopt standardised public procurement across the eu! let's apply electronic cohesion to reduce queues, to reduce red tape, to ask for fewer documents! we can do this. let us adopt simpler procedures for crossborder cooperation so that schengen does not impede member states. europe needs this. we need this. more europe does not mean more bureaucracy.
s&d), in writing. the revision of the europe 2020 strategy comes at a key moment for europe. the last few years have been marked by policies of strict economic discipline because of the financial and economic crisis from which the eu is still trying to recover. unfortunately, in times of crisis, national governments cut back by cutting education and culture budgets. the truth is that investing in education is often seen as a burden, rather than a long-term investment in human capital. this is particularly the case for young people, who have the highest unemployment rates. we are still a long way from achieving the objectives set out in the strategy. achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth goes through a clear commitment to invest in quality and accessible education for all, and through providing opportunities for young people in europe to achieve their potential. it's the only way to prevent the brain drain process.
in writing. eu cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy have until recently been the main tools for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the countries of the union. today, however, we have another strong partner in this endeavour - the european fund for strategic investments. i am pleased that the role of efsi is reflected in the report by mrs ruas. i would like to counter the concerns of some of my colleagues that the differences between the european structural and investment funds and the esi funds could hamper cohesion policy. on the contrary, the efsi complements these funds by creating a higher degree of synergy and added value. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the efta states in union programmes. i would like to encourage all competent european and national authorities to place the interaction between the european structural and investment funds and the efsi at the heart of future cohesion policy.
ppe), in written form. the european parliament has consistently rejected the commission's proposal for new rules allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gm food and feed authorised by the commission on their territory. in this way, parliament protects the public interest of all european citizens, including the bulgarian interest. the existing rules allow member states to prohibit the cultivation of authorised gmos on their territory. but when gmos are used (traded), they go beyond national borders because of the free movement of goods. the introduction of a ban on gmos in a country means the introduction of border controls on food and feed imports, which is contrary to the rules of the pan-european market. there is therefore no guarantee that the proposal will work in a single europe that seeks to remove restrictions and barriers to trade. it is clear that the national approach to restricting gmos does not provide solutions that avoid negative consequences for the single market and for the competitiveness of agricultural producers. i am of the opinion that a comprehensive new pan-european approach to the management of gmos from the authorisation process to their end-use is needed, based on a comprehensive assessment of all impacts and taking into account the restrictive policy that many countries (including bulgaria) have towards gmos.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by mr fernandes and mr döpre on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 all sections. in this report, the european parliament's committee on budgets amended the budget proposed by the council and adopted increases of eur 4159 billion for commitment appropriations and eur 4,34 billion for payment appropriations. in this decision, the committee on budgets opposed the budget cuts proposed by the council, and that is why i am against the proposal. yes, more funds must be allocated to deal with the flow of illegal immigrants, yes, more investment must be made to develop the private sector and create jobs. but we also need to find ways to save money, especially from the huge, overcrowded and inefficient administration of the european institutions and agencies, rather than constantly increasing the budget at the expense of member states' budgets.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i do not consider it necessary to increase the number of judges in the general court. it is true that the number of cases the court has to deal with is increasing, but i do not think that appointing more judges is the solution. furthermore, to my knowledge, there is also no assessment of the proposal as to how the reform would affect and what the consequences of it would be. moreover, their appointment would mean a loss to the european budget of approximately eur 20 million per year. and in the current difficult situation that the european union is facing, i think that these funds would be more useful to invest elsewhere.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the commission should not authorise new gmos intended for cultivation or import into europe, i am adamant. the commission's college, wishing to allow member states to decide for themselves whether to authorise gmo products, has put forward this proposal. one of my main battles here in the european parliament is to defend the sovereignty of the member states and to monitor closely the application of the subsidiarity rules. in many areas, the eu cannot interfere in national legislation and the idea of member states deciding for themselves whether to ban the import and use of gm food or feed could be appealing. it is important, however, to note that in practice the idea is not applicable in the existence of a common market. that's why i turned her down.
ecr), in writing. ‒ for those who are not sure what exactly 'novel foods' mean, those that were not consumed on a mass scale in the european union before 1997, when the first regulation on the subject came into force. this proposal simplifies the rules for the whole union and adapts them to technical and scientific progress. the new rules will subject novel foods to safety assessment and authorisation at eu level. if there is a possibility that a new food could affect human health, the european food safety authority will have to carry out an assessment. when decision-making at eu level can make it easier for traders and more secure for consumers, so that everyone wins, i can only support such a proposal.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mrs herling on the introduction of national ceilings for emissions of six major pollutants - sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, methane, and dust particles (less than 2.5 micrometres) - to be achieved between 2020 and 2030. i would stress, however, that i voted against the texts on the inclusion of methane and ammonia in this legislation, in order to protect the interests of farmers who have recently been exposed to too many risks. however, the european parliament eventually succeeded in excluding the limits for enteric methane, which is caused by the degressive processes in farm animals. but methane is essentially a greenhouse gas, and there are already limits on it in climate legislation, and any duplication of standards causes chaos and new difficulties for the people and businesses affected. my support for the new legislation is also due to the fact that the european parliament did not accept an increase in member states' obligations over the european commission's proposal, which would have made it difficult to achieve the objectives and would have cost many billions of euros in additional costs. despite the acknowledged need to limit harmful emissions, which kill hundreds of thousands of people every year, legislation must be commensurate with the real possibilities and costs of implementing it.
ppe), in written form. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is the first tool in the hands of eu citizens to give them the opportunity to address the european commission directly with a request for a proposal for european legislation. the conditions for this are the collection of at least one million signatures in support from at least seven member states. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. since then, only three initiatives - 'right2water', 'one of us' and 'stop vivisection' - have been considered eligible, managed to collect the necessary number of signatures and received a formal response from the european commission. although these initiatives were declared successful, the citizens behind them were disappointed that they did not ultimately achieve the desired impact on european legislation. as a result, european citizens seem to have lost their initial interest and faith, and now, unfortunately, we are seeing a declining trend in the number of new initiatives. i support the european parliament's resolution on the comprehensive assessment of shortcomings and the search for solutions. the goal is a simple, clear and easy-to-use mechanism. let us not discourage this form of active democratic participation in the political life of the european union. i find it a commitment on the part of every mep to work for the maximum effectiveness of the european citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the review of the europe 2020 strategy, as the situation in the eu in recent years and the analysis of its implementation clearly demonstrate the need for it. i'm not a fan of "reforming it", which is what he's suggesting. i believe that the european union needs to concentrate its efforts on growth. the europe 2020 strategy makes this possible. it is encouraging that some of the objectives in it seem achievable at this stage. however, it is necessary to focus on the remaining objectives by reviewing the seven flagship initiatives to stimulate progress on each of the priority themes. we must intensify our efforts to avoid repeating the mistakes of the lisbon strategy and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the path we are taking.
mr president, commissioner, the union - as you have said - must ensure a more efficient, modern and rapid management of its borders, while at the same time strengthening the checks at the crossing points. thirteen member states already operate their own entry/exit system, but structured and systematic cooperation within the union is lacking; the status quo is no longer a viable solution, we must move forward. i will raise four points. firstly, the introduction of a smart border system will enable us to exchange data effectively, not only between the different national authorities but also with europol or interpol, to detect, for example, the use of stolen passports through the automatic and automated consultation of their files. it is therefore clear that we must change the way we operate, making cooperation the rule rather than the exception. secondly, the full potential of this system must be exploited by allowing law enforcement access and by providing for a sufficient period of detention for this system to have added value. the sis and vis are already accessible to national authorities and europol. so the question i ask myself is: why not smart borders? thirdly, this system must be adapted to all types of borders: sea, land and air. the current situation shows that we cannot give priority to the protection of certain frontiers at the expense of other types of frontiers. finally, the union's credibility on the international scene also depends on its ability to ensure full security on its territory. so yes to mobility, but yes also to safety. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". thank you for asking. i think mr etheridge really must draw the main conclusion from what has been happening for months, namely that if the union had reacted in common with joint action, we could have dealt better with the current crisis and above all we would have had a better management. so we now see how the member states alone are managing this crisis. so i am going to go with the option of 'european union together through a common approach'.
mr president, i supported the proposal to reject this commission proposal on the use of genetically modified organisms because i believe that in its present form it will lead to malformations and problems in the functioning of the single market and may lead to the presence of gmos where they are not wanted. the commission's model will now allow the use of gm products in part of the european single market. however, within this free market, and the absence of border controls on imports and exports between the individual member states of the european union, the proposal put at risk those member states, including my own country, bulgaria, which do not want gmos and products derived from them to be used on their territory. i support the call for the european commission to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the impact of introducing such a measure and to make a detailed proposal. it must be in the interests of the majority of european union citizens who are against the use of genetically modified food and feed in their countries.
in writing. europe is one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the world, with millions of tourists coming here every year. the tourism sector generates 2.9% of eu gdp and employs 3.3% of the union's workforce. it's no secret that what attracts them most is our rich cultural heritage. that's why we have an obligation to preserve and promote it. i share the view that europe's cultural heritage has enormous strategic potential which we must develop and make the most of. in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth in europe, it is necessary to promote cultural tourism as a driver for sustainable economic and social development at local and regional level. in addition, i believe that in addition to the most popular tourist destinations, preference should be given to smaller and more unusual destinations, including my home country, bulgaria.
mr president, as i see it, this discussion is about jobs and growth. it is about how to make our economy more competitive and able to meet the new challenges ahead of us. some say we need to turn challenges into opportunities; for instance that the migration flow can increase regional growth and help us address labour market productivity and demographic challenges. i am actually unsure how straightforward this would be: without the skills and competences, asylum seekers could fall into irregular employment, with disruptive effects on the labour market. we must remember that challenges are not always opportunities and that they must always be carefully addressed at the same time. what we need to do is make europe’s economy strong enough to respond to difficulties if they arise instead of simply looking at the best-case scenario for the moment. this means serious structural reforms in places where they are most needed, and investing in europe’s growth. one point i would very much like to emphasise: making the investment plan truly european is also key to the european semester. it must support the member states and regions that were hardest hit by the crisis and those with fewer internal resources. it must also invest in value-added areas, such as technology, innovation, digitalisation and small businesses. this, in turn, means that the investment plan for europe must absolutely go hand in hand with the capital markets union, the european single market and the development of the digital single market. therefore, i call on the commission not only to ensure the continuity of its policies, but also to enhance the link between its separate initiatives.
in writing.– trust is central to the success of one of the eu’s most ambitious projects – the digital single market (dsm). it is the cornerstone of the information society, allowing citizens and businesses alike to make use of technology and expand their activity online. the lack of trust and understanding is the main obstacle to the digitalisation of europe and one we need to address. trust is also instrumental so that practices such as zero-rating are beneficial for europe by providing businesses with more freedom to innovate but at the same time obliging them to use this freedom cautiously. for the first time ever net neutrality is recognised as a principle in europe. providers across the continent need to respect this and manage the future development of their services accordingly. now that we are about to abolish roaming charges in europe, we should put more effort into providing consumers with a broader choice of high-quality services. only then will we create the right digital environment that encourages innovative business thinking and delivers the best services to our customers. furthermore, we should explore the possibilities of using zero-rating to improve digital skills in europe – the main prerequisite for the success of the dsm.
madam president, mr schmit, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the setting up of the trust fund for africa is still relatively new, but it should be remembered that there have been 11 european development funds before it. these programmes failed to anticipate and prevent the crisis we are experiencing today. so let's not stop asking ourselves why? i would like to stress three fundamental aspects: yes to smart financing, yes to anticipation and yes to results. firstly, the need for adequate but above all thoughtful and intelligent funding. caution is in order. let's make this a true multi-donor fund with our public and private donors and let's think together about how we can give this fund a truly global reach. the second is anticipation. these funds should enable us to build up the capacity of these countries, beyond the emergency, to anticipate the next crises as much as possible. in this respect, what is the added value of these funds compared with the old development funds? how is consistency of objectives ensured? thirdly, the results. if we are to increase the effectiveness of aid, perhaps it is time to say that one of the possibilities would be to narrow down our priorities to better target them. it is necessary to strengthen the mutual obligations of donors and partner countries with regard to the results achieved by defining and systematically referring to performance indicators. finally, let us apply the principle of giving more so as to receive more. finally, the efforts of the member states to participate in the fund must be strengthened and the commitments must be kept, but we cannot ask our african partners in valletta to do more if our actions do not reflect our words in the framework of the tools we create ourselves. it is time to redouble our efforts, and while learning from the past, migration can no longer remain a black box in eu-africa cooperation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, thank you for the question. i have two pieces of the answer. first, i think we have missed the big lesson of this crisis. if we had acted together as a union many years ago, this crisis would not have had the scale we face today. so, clearly, no, i don't agree with the approach that's being taken. secondly, just look at the figures which show how much some indicators have improved thanks to the european union's funding. we have less poverty, fewer malnourished children, women are better cared for in health care. for that reason, we should continue. yes, it is not easy, but we must continue because, in a few years, we get results. whether we like it or not, the union is stronger and more powerful than any single state.
in writing. i generally support the idea of funding development projects for countries affected by conflict, poverty and misery. improving living standards in these countries may stem the tide of economic migrants coming to europe. this is what the european commission hopes to achieve with the new trust funds for syria and africa. the problem is that for decades the european union has been helping developing countries, but the result is a steadily increasing number of illegal immigrants. it means that by pouring more money, the problems will not be solved, especially in syria. before any funds can be allocated, the problem of the islamic state must be solved once and for all and peace must be established in the country. as regards the trust funds themselves, i believe that they should be aimed at establishing cooperation with countries of origin and transit, which would ensure the effective implementation of readmission agreements, building the capacity of these countries to cooperate in the fight against migrant smugglers and, last but not least, supporting refugee camps. the situation in these countries is getting worse and worse, and that's what's driving people to flee to the european union.
in writing. the european budget is an investment engine for the eu, but also an instrument to support third countries. in both cases, a focus on performance, clear priorities and measurable results are required. the trust funds for syria and africa are one of the instruments to support third countries. the two funds already have €2.3 billion of the budget. the european commission expects member states to contribute an equivalent amount to the funds. these instruments come with their own shortcomings, such as the voluntary principle of contributions and the lack of a timeframe for transactions. the lack of clarity around the expected results is also a serious problem. bulgaria has approved eur 100 000 to be transferred to the 'syria' fund, but a clear vision is needed for investing these funds in order to achieve the desired result. the flexibility of the eu budget, rather than a fresh resource, is needed to finance the two funds. draft amending budget no 8/2015 provides for the release of a resource to be reimbursed to the member states in accordance with the own resources decision and regulation (ec) no 1150/2000 for its implementation. member states should decide on the amount of their contribution to the two funds on the basis of the trust they have earned and a clear understanding of the priorities and expected results.
madam president, the success of the daphne programme in combating violence against women and children is beyond dispute. it seems to me therefore essential that its integration into the law, equality and citizenship programme does not reduce its visibility and ensures transparency of its funding and of the projects linked to it. this programme is crucial for supporting the associations that work on the front line in preventing such violence and helping the victims. i would therefore like to stress three points: firstly, to facilitate access to daphne, particularly for small ngos, whether in terms of information, language or administrative formalities; secondly, a fair geographical distribution of projects, particularly in relation to the new member states. thirdly, to ensure that the results of the different projects covered by daphne are clearly communicated and visible. this is particularly important for better coordination between the european, national and local levels.
alde), in writing. mr president, i believe that supporting and promoting projects aimed at raising awareness, preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women is of paramount importance, and that ensuring adequate funding for such projects should therefore be a priority. in this connection, i consider that, whether or not the name 'daphne' is retained, the profile of the programmes must be preserved in terms of the possibilities for carrying out such projects. the new programme 'rights, equality and citizenship' should ensure the continuation of the specific objectives of the previous programmes 'dafne' by providing adequate funding to prevent and combat all forms of violence, taking into account the specificities of violence against women and girls.
s&ds) madam president, at this late hour in la valletta, the european and african leaders are meeting to discuss the refugee crisis and migration. what the outcome of this meeting will be remains to be seen. unfortunately, europe has left with almost nothing. the european commission yesterday published its first report on the implementation of emergency measures to deal with the crisis. there's nothing to brag about. of all the hot spots, only one is working. so far, only 147 people have been relocated out of 160,000. the western balkans summit has failed. there is a tendency to selfishly lock member states into national policies rather than european ones. the return of borders between schengen countries and the emergence of new fences is proof. there is a danger that the migrant crisis could also trigger a political crisis in the union with unforeseeable consequences. we insist on strict monitoring by the european commission of the implementation of the measures adopted by the european parliament.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i strongly support the modernisation of the interoperability solution for public administrations, businesses and citizens. the isa2 programme is an effective and necessary successor to isa and will provide the necessary changes towards a more digitised environment. this is a necessary step if we are to fully integrate the new technologies at our disposal to further improve communication solutions and interoperability between public administrations, to make it more consistent. this modernisation is also of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, which make up a significant part of our economy and neither they nor citizens should suffer from the burden of excessive bureaucracy and incompatibility of different systems.
ppe), in written form. ‒ isa2 is the programme the european union needs to overcome the electronic barriers between member states. the programme is expected to start operations in january 2016 and will aim to support the development of operational digital solutions to be made available to public administrations in europe. the main beneficiaries will be the national, regional and local administrations in the eu countries. they will use digital systems to ensure the interoperability of their it systems and to provide electronic services that will allow easier application and implementation of cross-border projects and programmes, exchange of experience, etc. the work on the ec proposal in the european parliament was divided between the itre, imco and libe committees. i hope and believe that, in addition to cutting red tape, this programme will also be a step towards a common procurement portal for european funding, a more efficient and transparent european union. it will also support citizens and businesses. at the same time, the real output of the programme must meet the real needs of the administration in order to ensure technical assistance and maximum impact from the use of european taxpayers' funds.
in writing. egovernment is an important element of the future development of a united europe. not only does it save us money and time, but it also brings with it greater transparency. i supported isa2 because, for the first time, the programme identifies not only public administrations at european, national, regional and local level as beneficiaries of isa2, but also citizens and businesses in europe. in the amendments to the text, we have focused on improving access to public information for companies, and especially smes, which are the biggest victims of clumsy and outdated administrations. for businesses, this also means opening up easier access to new markets.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the reform of the european union's electoral law. i believe that the recommendations made in the report interfere with the sovereign right of the member states to determine the rules for holding elections themselves. i think that the idea of a minimum voting age of 16 for example, is not applicable to all eu member states, among other things. i'm not in favour of imposing common rules for the whole eu. i believe that each country should be free to determine its own legislation on the holding of elections and i do not think that, for example, the introduction of the same time for the closing of voting would contribute to the fight against electoral fraud and vote manipulation that are observed in some member states.
alde), in writing. ‒ i support the report on electoral reform in the eu, as i find it particularly important to call on member states to take measures to promote the adequate representation of ethnic, linguistic and other minorities in european elections. he's also very pro-bulgarian. according to the bulgarian electoral code, the election campaign is conducted only in bulgarian, and violation of this provision leads to the imposition of administrative sanctions. under the treaties, any european citizen residing in bulgaria has the right to stand as a candidate for the european parliament. however, this cannot happen in practice because he is deprived of the opportunity to speak to his voters in a language other than bulgarian and because this hinders the right of voters to make their informed choice. i believe that the formation of a european political consciousness and the expression of the will of all citizens of the union require that this situation be changed.
ppe), in written form. ‒ today, the european parliament has taken advantage of one of its rare opportunities for initiative and proposed a reform of the rules for electing its members. one of the main proposals is the introduction of electronic voting in the european parliament elections. what's next? in order to enter into force, proposals voted in plenary must be approved unanimously by the council and the member states in accordance with their constitutional requirements. it remains to be seen whether member states will adopt these measures and whether they will allow their citizens to vote electronically in the 2019 european elections. the debate on electronic voting at the european level coincided with the results of the bulgarian referendum. i hope that with our joint efforts, we can stop the decline in voter turnout and make it easier for all citizens to vote from abroad. that is why i support the reform of european electoral legislation.
ppe), in written form. ‒ to change eu legislation, proposals need to be approved, first, by the council unanimously and, second, by the member states, in accordance with their respective constitutional provisions. it's a slow and difficult process, but sometimes the cause is worth fighting for. in the proposal voted in the european parliament, the new rules require that the ep elections be contested by officially approved leading candidates for president of the commission. these candidates are to stand in the european elections and be formally nominated within 12 weeks of the vote. also, all eu citizens living abroad should be able to vote online or by post.
in writing. as a politician working for a europe of young people and digital technologies, i supported the proposal to reform the 1976 act on the election of representatives to the european parliament. it is important to encourage civic participation in public and political life, and the natural tool for this is the introduction of electronic voting for those living abroad. the modernisation of the 1976 rules for the digital age is a necessity. europe has a chance to be a leader in the digital world, and this can only happen with proactive and socially responsible citizens.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the 'aviation package', to be announced by the commission at the end of 2015, is expected to identify the problems in the sector and propose measures to overcome the challenges facing the european aviation sector. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2009 and 2009 was signed on the same day. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. that's why i decided to abstain.
ppe), in written form. ‒ the aviation industry is a major contributor to growth and employment in the eu and is closely linked to the competitiveness of the eu's air sector. the european aviation sector suffers from various legal and financial burdens leading to a loss of competitiveness. the aviation package would give the aviation industry the boost it needs. the document highlights the close link between competitiveness and innovation and the concrete steps that need to be taken. it is essential to remove the burdens on european airlines at national and european level in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector. the implementation of the single european sky needs to be accelerated, eu air agreements with gulf states need to be negotiated as soon as possible, and the rules on unfair pricing practices in the air transport sector need to be enforced. the document highlights the role of small and regional airports in the eu as a way of tackling congestion at larger and major airports, through indirect links. in this sense, a long-term eu strategic plan is needed to address the challenges of regional airports within the union. international regulation of the air transport sector is needed for fairer rules. the full implementation of the sesar programme is another important step.
today is the 10th day of the monstrous attacks in paris, but also the 321st day of the attack on the charlie hebdo newsroom. if the blockade in brussels is to show anything, it is that we cannot and cannot live in such a level of uncertainty and fear. so today, on the 10th day of the paris attacks, i stand before you to tell you that we cannot wait 321 days after this terrorist act to take action. there are a few clear solutions before us: first, to close important files like this one on the passenger booking data directive; to consolidate key elements like frontex to make it a true guardian of the european union's borders. we also need to decide what to do about radicalization and foreign fighters on our soil. and finally, change the mechanisms on our borders so that we have enough information to share. because every day that passes without proper measures is a day of fear for our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tragic events caused by the military attacks carried out by the islamic state on the territory of the member states of the european union unequivocally confirm the fears we have expressed for a year or more about the invasion and attacks of salafi sunni islam and its terror in our homes. it is clear that the european union must immediately take the measures we have proposed to protect and defend its external borders. to the south, the eu's largest land border is that of my homeland, the republic of bulgaria. and here i turn to my colleagues in the epp and the pes, who i consider responsible for the european parliament's unwilling and unproductive behaviour towards the islamic state and terrorism. i again demand the following immediate measures for the eu: the immediate covering up of the state borders and the european union border, which is my homeland, the republic of bulgaria; the immediate extradition and expulsion of all illegal immigrants from the territory of the eu and the member states; the immediate physical detection, localization and destruction of the islamist cells on the territory of the eu member states. ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, this is the only way we can at least try to defend our homes, our lives and what we consider to be our values.
commissioner, i was surprised to learn from the european commission's report that you included 'nord stream 2' and 'turkish stream' as a priority for the european commission, instead of 'south stream', which your commission had stopped. why did you condemn the bulgarian people from the poorest member state of the european union to an absolute and total dependence on russian and turkish gas at the same time? what is the guarantee that turkey, which will buy russian gas, will not sell it at whatever prices it wants on the bulgarian, european market and as turkish gas? why did you support nord stream 2 and not work, as you promised, to restart the nabucco project, which would deliver iranian gas to europe and bulgaria as an alternative to russian gas? behind the backs of the bulgarian people, germany and mrs. merkel are obviously negotiating very well with mr. putin. the commission's behaviour is indeed hypocritical and undermines the confidence of the citizens of europe in the european commission and in the building of a future common energy market and union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is commendable that the commission is continuing to work at a high pace on the energy union. last week's communications on the state of this union make its outlines and goals ever clearer. i welcome the commission's initiative for concrete, measurable indicators to track progress. however, these indicators are not intended to single out individual member states, but to identify activities and regions where more common efforts need to be focused in order to achieve the targets in a timely manner. the backbone of the energy union is undoubtedly the creation of a single energy market, which is currently almost completely fragmented. in this respect, the most rapid results are achieved through the targeted creation of regional energy markets. in this regard, taking into account the good examples of regional cooperation in northern europe, i recommend that the commission focus more on the south east europe region, where pan-european efforts are clearly needed both to eliminate the existing vulnerability and to diversify sources and routes of gas supply throughout the european union, including from own sources.
in writing. the first state of the energy union report shows the importance of building a future-oriented energy strategy. one of the most important elements of this long-term strategy must be energy efficiency, because only through reduced energy consumption can europe achieve true independence, which is important both economically and geopolitically. i welcome the commission's decision in 2016 to come up with a new eco-design plan that will not only improve the circular economy but also help energy efficiency in the member states. bulgaria has adopted a bgn 1 billion national energy efficiency programme. this will not only lead to lower energy consumption, thermal comfort and a higher quality of life for citizens, but also reduce energy dependence on external sources. improving energy infrastructure is another priority for the bulgarian government, which is why for us the inclusion of a large number of projects in the adopted list of projects of common interest is an extremely positive signal. i call on the commission to continue consistently supporting these infrastructure projects in the country and the region until they are fully implemented in order to achieve our energy policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the european commission's refit programme, which aims to repeal european legislative instruments that are no longer valid for the member states. after assessing the police and judicial cooperation acts, the commission identified several instruments which were temporary in nature or whose content was reflected in subsequent texts. i support the refit programme and i supported the repeal of certain acts relating to the schengen acquis. furthermore, bulgaria is not part of the schengen area and this makes these acts invalid for it as they are not legally binding.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the european commission's refit programme, which aims to repeal european legislative instruments that are no longer valid for the member states. after assessing the police and judicial cooperation acts, the commission identified several instruments which were temporary in nature or whose content was reflected in subsequent texts. i support the refit programme and supported the repeal of certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i believe that there is a need to reduce the volume and simplify union law, including by repealing obsolete acts.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the european commission's refit programme, which aims to repeal european legislative instruments that are no longer valid for the member states. after assessing the police and judicial cooperation acts, the commission identified several instruments which were temporary in nature or whose content was reflected in subsequent texts. on the basis of its review and in line with its commitments under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and its policy on regulatory fitness, the commission has proposed the repeal of 7 council joint actions, the content of which is reflected in subsequent acts, and of council act 1999/c 26/07 laying down the staff regulations applicable to europol staff. the latter act applies only to a very limited number of employment contracts concluded before the adoption of council decision 2009/371/jha on europol. only a few such treaties are still in force and will soon expire. i supported their repeal because i believe that there is a need to reduce the volume and simplify union law, including by repealing obsolete acts.
in writing. ‒ red tuna is an undeniable delicacy, especially for lovers of japanese cuisine. the fact is, these huge fish, weighing up to hundreds of pounds, can sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars. all of these things give rise to a huge interest in catching this fish. we all know that the european union has one of the highest environmental standards in the world. that is why i supported the proposal to sign this agreement with the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, hoping that our high standards would be passed on to the commission and that we would be able to conserve this fish. i will monitor the work of this committee with interest and report irregularities with particular severity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation, as it should ensure that a uniform level of consumer protection is applied and that all consumers can benefit from comparable standards. this directive should promote a level playing field and a level playing field between intermediaries, whether or not they are linked to an insurance undertaking. it is in the interests of consumers that insurance products are distributed through different channels and through intermediaries with different forms of cooperation with insurance undertakings, provided that they are required to apply similar consumer protection rules.
in writing. ‒ the ep has spoken out for the protection of eu insurance consumers. the commission has called for more information, better advice and protection for european individuals and legal entities when buying insurance. insurance salesmen will have to register with the competent authorities in their own member state and sales staff will have to be professionally trained to respond to customer inquiries and needs. equivalent access to information will be ensured and there will be protection for customers in the event of the insurer's inability to pay a premium.
in writing. – insurance products concern everyone and it is essential to have fair competition and transparency in a country’s market, as well as across borders. the eu insurance sector is strong, it plays a leading role in the global insurance business and it should continue to do so. that is why i voted in favour of the report, which sets out clear requirements for transparency in the standard information sheet and in relation to the remuneration of agents or mediators.
mr president, according to eurostat data, the percentage of children living in poverty and social exclusion for countries such as bulgaria, romania and hungary is as high as 40%. child poverty leads to lack of access to quality food, health care, drop-out. limited opportunities form a vicious circle of social isolation. that is why i support the report on reducing inequality and poverty among children and i believe that our policies should be directed towards addressing the causes of child poverty and towards supporting children and their development, unemployed parents, single mothers and parents of disadvantaged children. a specific strategy for investing in children under the european social fund and the fund for the support of the most deprived is also needed, as well as the inclusion of the eradication of child poverty among the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i agree that there is a lot of data and statistics that show that child poverty is increasing. bulgaria continues to have the highest child poverty rate in the european union. data from the national children's network shows that about 637,000 children in the country are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is almost twice the eu average. however, to solve such a problem, measures are needed, but i do not find that this report proposes such specific measures. it's just a way of exposing the issues in the sector. the proposal for a special guarantee fund for poor children, who would receive free education, health care, clothing and so on, may be a wonderful idea, but it's utopian. who do you think will fill this fund and how can i ask bulgaria to offer such free services when our gdp per capita in 2014 was 5,500 euros and that of belgium for the same period was 33,800 euros? children are our future and to offer them health and education is our moral duty! we have all signed the un convention on the rights of the child, and it imposes legal obligations on states to provide the necessary conditions for children's rights to be exercised effectively.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues in the european parliament and i overwhelmingly approved a resolution calling for tackling child poverty in europe. statistics show that in 2014, the average level of child poverty in the eu member states was 27,7%, or 26 million children. in other words, approximately one in four children is at risk of living in poverty. children are most vulnerable to the consequences of lack of food, clothing, safe housing, limited access to health care and education. unfortunately, bulgaria is second in this statistic, with a high proportion of children at risk, along with romania and hungary. the european parliament therefore puts the issue on the agenda and calls for greater commitment and adequate policies to combat child poverty and its causes. the main role in tackling these difficulties is undoubtedly that of the member states through their social policies. europe also needs to invest more in its future through concrete measures targeting children in unemployed, single-parent and special needs families.
in writing. for over two years, the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats has been calling for the creation of a child guarantee. we need this mechanism now more than ever. the challenges facing the eu - the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in paris and the refugee crisis - require action in several directions. education and environment are the factors that shape an individual's views and attitudes toward others and the world. poverty and social exclusion are among the reasons for the encapsulation and marginalisation of some communities in the eu. for these reasons, i believe that a key priority in the fight against child poverty should be to reduce early school leaving rates. i believe that the establishment of the 'child guarantee' will give impetus to measures to ensure that every child has free access to education and healthcare, a decent place to live and food that meets their needs. it is this potential that makes me feel confident and committed to supporting this report.
in writing. – i supported the resolution, which urges member states to reduce inequality and tackle the pressing situation of child poverty across the eu. as a bulgarian, whose country ranks 2nd in child poverty level in the eu, i believe it is vital for the country’s future to ensure access to education, health and welfare of all children and their families. there is no doubt that reducing, and even abolishing, child poverty should be on top of our agendas. in september 2015, world leaders adopted a new set of sustainable development goals, which will be followed by all countries, including the 28 eu member states. we cannot achieve true sustainable development without investing in those who will actually support it – today’s children, everywhere.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support and have never supported policies based on the presumption of granting privileges. this report calls for just that - give more to the marginalized. and what's the effect? none. practically proven for so many years. the cohesion policy cannot be achieved if it is constantly repeated that racism, xenophobia and sexism are to blame. it's mantras and spells. why does no one say that the marginal communities themselves are resisting en masse and insisting on receiving generous sums but living as they know how? when will we admit that this model of integration is impossible? when are we going to admit that what we've been taught for so many years has failed? i urge you to stop this hypocrisy. pouring hundreds of millions into a bunch of useless programs hasn't changed anything. this policy of tolerance and conciliation is untenable. i don't support policies like this that encourage social parasitism. this report suggests exactly that. no, thank you.
in writing. – cohesion policy is probably the strongest eu instrument to fight inequality and support sustainable territorial development in its regions. i support the report and the current 2014-2020 cohesion framework that puts forward new measures for improving the situation of marginalised communities, such as the investment priority. i believe it could have a positive effect on the situation with the marginalised roma communities in my home country, bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report because i do not think it is aimed in the right direction, namely international cooperation and coordination. the question of whether the eu should have a seat in an enlarged un body is the question that is being raised here and the rapporteur believes that such a seat should be given to our union. but i think it is a union that should cooperate, based on the idea of peace, but not become a federal state with its own government. the sovereignty of the member states must be preserved, which means that the eu is not and cannot be a state and cannot be represented as a full member of the un security council, but it can certainly work for coordination between member states and international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because the european union is a global actor and must play a leading role in safeguarding world peace, security, development and human rights. the european union, with its unique structure, has a strong set of tools that can be implemented within the un to set the global agenda. i believe we must continue to be a leading global actor in the fight against poverty, in promoting sustainable economic, social and environmental progress in developing countries, because that is the guarantee of lasting peace and stability. it is necessary to continue to lead in supporting un operations in areas of mutual interest, in particular in the protection of civilians, and in particular women and children affected by armed conflict. all of our objectives can only be achieved when the eu has solid partners on the world stage with whom to work closely together to tackle global challenges.
in writing. culture is an important element in the eu's external diplomatic relations because it has the merit of stimulating dialogue and mutual understanding. i am of the opinion that it should be an essential component of political dialogue with third countries and be systematically integrated into development projects and programmes. the refugee situation and the paris attacks make the need for increased cooperation between the eu and the un even more apparent. that is why i am advocating that culture should be given a more visible and prominent place in the post-2015 millennium development goals. i share the view that to build a stronger relationship between the eu and unesco, we need to think beyond financial aid and joint project management. i believe that we need to lay the foundations for a permanent dialogue and deepen cooperation in the fields of education and culture in the long term. that is why i called for the establishment of an annual structured high-level dialogue to enable us to meet common challenges in a more sustainable way.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the role of the eu within the un report, because it is an important step towards enhancing the ongoing cooperation between the two bodies. the eu and its member states play an essential role and contribute to the work of the un system in various ways and formats and this role needs to be strengthened further.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate rapporteurs fernandes and deprez and commissioner georgieva for their contribution to achieving the political priorities of the 2016 budget. the eu budget for next year started with political guidance based on the three highest priorities: employment, enterprises and entrepreneurship. it is time to make the final assessment on whether the priorities have being followed correctly regarding the entire job done in the respective committees, plenary sessions and interinstitutional negotiations in the context of the existing economic situation and refugee crisis. in the 2016 budget, the overall level of commitment appropriations is set at eur 155 billion, and payment appropriations at almost eur 143.9 billion. this does not completely match parliament’s position on the budget. nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction, because we reversed some cuts made by the council. furthermore, in implementation of the political priorities, we have achieved a budget that is even better in comparison with the draft proposed by the commission. the increased appropriations and the mobilised eur 1.5 billion within the flexibility instrument ensure more funding for migration, humanitarian aid, horizon 2020, small and medium enterprises and erasmus+. the youth employment initiative will be kept on as a high and shared political priority. we should continue to work in order to phase out the backlog of outstanding payment claims, and on the upcoming mid-term review of the mff. a serious debate for the full introduction of performance-based budgeting should be linked to the prevention of the subjective financial programme cuts in the member states.
in writing. 150 billion euros, hundreds of pages of numbers and text, three institutions, months of negotiations. we know these things, the people we've been involved with. but tonight i want to talk about values. the budget equals priorities and investments in service of each of the more than 500 million citizens. it puts people, business and their needs at the center. the 150 billion is a bridge to our goals for a better tomorrow. young people, horizon 2020, erasmus+, cosme, infrastructure, entrepreneurship, innovation and education - these are our values as the european parliament. these are also european values, measurable with tangible results. despite the different positions and challenges, the institutions sat around the table and achieved results because we had one thing in mind: a stronger european union tomorrow. the budget is europe.
member of the commission.– madam president, in the aftermath of the tragic events in paris and the developments in brussels, we are all more than concerned. our society is appalled by the terror that extremists are trying to poison us with. while we are still grieving for the innocent people who lost their lives in paris, we cannot allow this to turn into a general psychosis. we cannot allow fear to prevail, because fear is also a threat. we cannot allow the terrorists to demoralise us and win, because terrorists target innocent people, but they also target our values and our way of life. we have been through this before, and we know that our strength is our unity and our resilience. our only way forward is to act to prevent these actions from happening and to ensure the security of our citizens and our democracies. this report could not be more timely for our collective response to fighting terrorism and radicalisation. in these challenging times for europe it is of crucial importance that the institutions of our union see eye to eye on the way ahead. the european agenda on security, adopted in april this year, set out the principles and key actions in this area. this agenda is the reason why we are not just reacting to events now. we are implementing and accelerating the actions we already had in the pipeline to strengthen our resilience to terror. an important example of one such action is the crucial new rules to control firearms that we proposed just last week. i will very soon come forward with an action plan on their trafficking as well. however, let me start with our work on prevention. our strongest partner and guarantor for the delivery of effective preventive measures is the radicalisation awareness network (ran). more than 2 000 local practitioners with different backgrounds from all over europe are working on addressing the root causes of radicalisation. since the year 2011, the ran has produced policy recommendations as well as practical guidance and training material to better prevent and address radicalisation, on schools and the prison and probation environment, on the foreign terrorist fighter phenomenon, and on the development of counter-narratives. the ran has now been reinforced with a centre of excellence, which has been up and running since 1 october 2015 and which will support the ran and help it expand its reach further, even to priority third countries such as the middle east, north africa and the western balkans. many of the perpetrators of these vicious acts are eu citizens, born and bred in our societies. this means that our work has to start right here in our countries, in our societies and in our neighbourhoods. let me now refer to the abuse of the internet and social media for terrorist purposes. we have started our engagement with the industry, and i will formally launch the eu internet forum on 3 december. i can inform you today that i will personally invite the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) to attend. i expect this partnership with the industry to lead to concrete outcomes in preventing and countering radicalisation leading to violent extremism. one of the key goals of this forum is to improve our cooperation in removing terrorist material that may push our youth towards radicalisation. the eu internet referral unit, established within europol, is instrumental and very helpful in this regard. it can build on the expertise of the european cybercrime centre within europol, which has many years of experience in dealing with illegal content. so we are by no means starting from zero. in this context, i welcome the call to reinforce the mandate and resources of the european cybercrime centre to enable it to face these new challenges. our inter-institutional discussions to finalise the europol reform will also touch on this. the second priority is to support the development of effective counter-narratives. there is progress in this area, through initiatives such as the syria strategic communication task force, which supports eu countries in developing messages and carrying out targeted communication campaigns. the commission is both financially and politically supporting the continuation of this project. today’s report touches on several other important elements that we are working on. we are working to improve evidence and intelligence-sharing across the european union, in full respect – as is obvious – of fundamental rights. as a matter of priority, we will look into all available options to strengthen our tools against terrorist financing. this includes measures for freezing terrorist assets. i will very soon propose a directive to strengthen our framework on the criminalisation of terrorist offences, particularly travel with a terrorist purpose and terrorist financing. this is how we will tackle the problem of foreign terrorist fighters. i will also soon report on the implementation of the commission’s communication on the prevention of radicalisation. i hope that we will continue our constructive dialogue on matters of security and, more specifically, the pending proposals and envisaged initiatives. we will need your full support and engagement on the difficult way ahead. europe needs to be united and to defend its values with the necessary rigour. you are well aware of the ongoing work on different counter-terrorism measures. we will discuss this in detail tomorrow and will have other opportunities to do so. today, our discussion has focused on counter—radicalisation. it has focused specifically on one of the root causes of the problem, and this is where the solution should come from as well. this report will serve as a basis for a continued exchange of views about our prevention policy. i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, ms dati, and i look forward to a very useful and constructive discussion tonight.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on culture and education. ladies and gentlemen, much can and will be said on this undoubtedly most topical subject, but without urgent measures, we will not achieve any visible results. yes, we have certainly produced a report on the subject, in which we have suggested to the commission how to work on this problem. however, immediate action is needed. monitoring of all is-related organisations and suspicious activities, detailed analyses of their activities, banning them where necessary, checks of the educational materials and content of books and information available on global networks are needed. in the last few weeks, all of us european citizens have witnessed the consequences of the radicalisation of european citizens who do not fit into european communities and their recruitment by terrorist groups and organisations. i have been warning for a long time, and it is no secret, about this problem and its dangerous spread throughout the european union. we must immediately, ladies and gentlemen, open our eyes to the fact that this problem has now far exceeded its regional character and is not regional. europe is facing war, and i fear that if we continue to turn a blind eye to the problem, it will be too late.
madam president, i am sure that all of us in this house would like this discussion to be less painfully topical. the report must urgently become the basis for a legislative initiative by the commission. the external borders of the union and, i stress, of the european union and not just of the schengen area, must be strengthened in terms of finances and resources. this measure does not deprive citizens of their rights, but on the contrary, it guarantees their security. secondly, we need controls on the routes of foreign fighters travelling to and from the middle east, including concrete commitments for joint action with third countries and especially turkey. the emergency measures do not abolish the prevention of radicalisation. we can no longer just see that in our own countries, in our own societies, there are lost generations, isolated ghettos, poor people without prospects who easily become victims of radical movements. do we really have the courage to break stereotypes and have real integration? we need to give these young people a future and the confidence that they belong in our world. that's how we get them on our side. and hopefully, the efforts of the last few days to form a truly great international coalition against daesh will finally destroy the source of evil as quickly as possible.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the steel sector, which marked the beginning of european integration, is today experiencing the worst crisis in its peaceful history. over the last five to eight years, over 40 million tons of steel capacity has been shut down and hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost. the crisis in the nonferrous metals and metal alloys sector is similar, facing strong competition from countries that do not have europe's strict standards. at the same time, policies to decarbonise the economy impose a burden of additional carbon costs and high energy prices, which undermines the competitiveness of this industry. given the huge overcapacity in third countries and dumping by foreign players, the trends become even more gloomy. decisive action is needed to prevent a new external dependence of the eu on steel and non-ferrous metals. the fight against climate change must culminate in paris with the creation of a common environmental regime to reduce emissions, in order to prevent the phenomenon of carbon leakage outside the eu. free allowances for emissions from sectors at risk of loss of competitiveness are maintained, innovation and efficiency in industry are encouraged. the instruments for trade defence against unfair competition, including caution in the recognition of market economy status, need to be applied systematically.
i've been listening to this empty debate for over an hour with great disappointment, colleagues. apparently most either don't understand or don't want to understand the reasons for the latest attack on european citizens and civilization. islamic radicalism is not just terrorism, it is a real military attack on europe. multiculturalism and integration don't work and won't work in the islamist ghettos of europe. the real enemy is in power in saudi arabia and turkey, who are funding and organizing the islamic state. with the wave of illegal immigrants in europe, european jihadists are returning to sow death, chaos and destruction. while we welcome these people with teddy bears at the train stations, we will send our loved ones with candles in the squares, esteemed gentlemen. mr. juncker, the fact that you're talking the same way after charlie hebdo and today, tells me you haven't tried to learn anything new. the commission's proposal is partly ridiculous, irrelevant and not working. the immediate closure of external borders, the cessation of the flow of migrants, the extradition of illegal immigrants, the smashing of islamist ghettos in europe, the physical destruction of the 'islamic state' are necessary. all the rest, ladies and gentlemen, is just empty talk.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we will not tire of repeating that our first reaction is to show solidarity with the parisians and the french. it is not france that is under attack, but europe, our freedoms and our values. however, being supportive does not mean that we should ignore our own shortcomings. i have three points to make. the first concerns the management of our external borders and police, judicial and intelligence cooperation between member states. the results are still largely inadequate. there are also important gaps in the linking of the different databases. the second point concerns external action. on the one hand, it is better to cooperate with third countries, particularly in order to stop the financing of terrorism, and on the other hand, we must anticipate the consequences and the follow-up of our actions on the ground. the weakening or destruction of the islamic state must not leave the door open to other security threats. thirdly, it is important to strengthen our work on the prevention of radicalisation. that's the big lesson of these attacks. an analysis, including sociological, of the various individuals and their profiles is necessary. the security response is not enough.
in writing. eleven months after the attacks on charlie hebdo and the cashmere shop in paris, we continue to speak of the need to step up the fight against terrorism at european level. the same measures we discussed in january, we are discussing now - the adoption of the passenger data directive, tightening controls on the eu arms trade, better cooperation between the different security services, preventing radicalisation among european citizens. that is why i call for the swift reinforcement of controls at all eu external borders following the attacks of 13 november in paris my country bulgaria has introduced 100% checks on all those crossing the bulgarian-turkish border. the security of europe's external borders must be guaranteed so as not to jeopardise the free movement of people within the eu and schengen. to this end, the passenger data exchange directive needs to be adopted by the end of 2015. it is unacceptable that european services cannot currently trace when foreign fighters leave europe and, more importantly, when they return to commit a terrorist act. we don't need to wait for more casualties to bring these urgently needed measures to a conclusion. european citizens expect us to act quickly to restore a sense of security in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this draft amending budget because it is a regular annual adjustment exercise. after an initial attempt to link this annual adjustment to the migrant and refugee crisis, the council has been able to successfully refuse this as this would have clearly been without a legal basis, and nor have the member states ever committed to match the commission’s expenditure. nonetheless, with these changes, the procedure was de-politicised and in fact now represents a decrease in member states’ gni—based contributions, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ i support the idea that more money is needed to tackle the migration crisis, but i voted nonetheless abstained on the report mobilising the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european migration programme . i have taken this position because i am concerned that the mobilisation of these funds exceeds the agreed budget ceilings and spends all the money earmarked for dealing with so-called 'unforeseen circumstances'. exceeding the budgetary ceilings could call into question the sustainability of the union budget, and spending all available funds provided for in the flexibility instrument would hamper the union's ability to respond to other instances of 'unforeseen circumstances' in the coming years. instead of allocating more resources and burdening the budget, the commission should review budget lines with a poor implementation rate and make savings to finance measures to deal with the immigration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report. finally, adjustments are made to do something about the grave natural disasters that occur in europe. in bulgaria we often experience first-hand how devastating these can be. people lose their belongings, houses, life and even suffer secondary losses as well through a lack of clients, etc. we need to be capable of responding a lot of faster in supporting them as, unfortunately, often the smaller states or the ones struggling economically are affected. therefore, often the state itself may not be able to step in immediately. thus, we need the mobilisation of additional sums for the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i have voted not to support this agreement. in my opinion, there is a need for additional support but not at the overall expense of member states, which are already under a lot of pressure. in fact, there should be more funding available to handle the crisis but still too much money is distributed in an inefficient way. just a simple sending of large amounts of money does not solve the problem. we need targeted support. currently, as announced under this budgetary procedure, there is a lack of available margins under a number of headings and a lack of redeployment from wasteful budget lines to priority areas.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the eu budget for 2016. in my work and activities as a member of the european parliament, among other initiatives, i fully support the efforts in the spheres of education, combating youth unemployment, development of entrepreneurship and smes and research and innovation. i welcome the decision for erasmus + to receive a 30 percent increase over 2016, reaching an eur 1.8 billion budget for next year, which will tremendously boost education exchanges. moreover, the escalating migration crisis urgently requires further investment. therefore, i am in favour of the budget and, in particular, the increase of funding in these fields.
in writing. ‒ our desire to curb tax and other financial fraud is commendable. what concerns me, on the one hand, is that a number of member states have refused to answer the commission's questions, and that almost all multinational corporations have refused to participate in the commission's meetings. this leads me to believe that these companies have a clear reluctance to participate in the adoption of new rules. the other thing that makes a bad impression on me is that the amendments proposed by our group, and those we supported, put forward by the epp and alde colleagues, were not accepted. i am also concerned that all the proposed measures will either not be complied with by certain member states of the union, or if they are complied with, they will only affect smes, which are the main taxpayers, and will not affect mncs, which are to a large extent those that have armies of lawyers, financiers and accountants who are constantly looking for loopholes in the laws to save their employers taxes. i'm also concerned that if we tighten the measures too much, a number of the current big taxpayers in the eu will take their companies offshore, which instead of helping to increase collection, will reduce the union's money. that's why i don't support the report.
in writing. ‒ the the report gives the example of the luxscs scandal, which brought the issues of corporate tax base reduction and aggressive tax planning to the attention of the public and the media by exposing dubious tax practices. stresses that tax avoidance by some mfis may lead to near zero effective tax rates on profits; acknowledges that in the wake of the economic crisis and the luxscs scandal, attempts to tackle aggressive tax planning by mncs have been high on the political agenda of the member states; the report calls on the commission to fulfil its duty as guardian of the treaties by ensuring that eu law and the principle of sincere cooperation between member states are fully respected. calls also for an investigation into the role of financial institutions in supporting harmful tax practices; i support the resolution.
in writing. – eur 1 trillion a year: that is how much tax evasion and tax avoidance is costing european tax payers every year. i support the report that urges for better tax ruling measures among eu and, in particular, the special focus that is made on multinationals’ preferential tax treatment. if multinationals are treated in the same way as domestic firms, this would help entrepreneurship activities, which i am promoting and fully supporting as a mep.
mr president, the recent attacks in paris and mali have clearly shown that radicalisation and terrorist threats have no national borders and require adequate measures at european and global level. to avoid tragedies of this scale in the future, we must focus our efforts on providing prevention. in this context, i warmly welcome the paris convention of ministers of education, which aims to instill common european values such as freedom, tolerance and the fight against discrimination in young people through education from an early age. europe is going through difficult times and it is time to realise that we need to invest in inclusive education, which creates responsible, tolerant and open-minded citizens who are able to distinguish fact from opinion. i am of the opinion that educational institutions should cultivate critical thinking among young people, which helps them to understand and evaluate information correctly in the context of the internet and social networks and thus be less vulnerable to manipulation and propaganda.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by setting out the following: ‒ the report is a good step towards more successful european cooperation in preventing radicalisation and i supported it. action at european union level is needed, at least aimed at cooperation and exchange of good practices. a common network to exchange information on the problems of radicalisation can also be a good step. but as i have said many times and will continue to say, we need to root out the root of the problem, we need military action against the terrorist organization daesh and the territory it occupies, closing the borders to the flow of immigrants and immediately extraditing illegal immigrants residing on our territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is timely in the current context, as the fight against radicalisation must become one of our priorities. the resolution states that radicalisation cannot be confined to islamist radicalisation alone and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilisation. the text addresses all aspects of this phenomenon, with an emphasis on the preventive aspect in prisons and on the internet. we also stress the importance of strengthening and improving the speed and efficiency of exchanges of information between member states and the relevant european agencies. finally, we recall the need for a multidimensional approach which also includes the role of education and the development of counter-narratives based on respect for human rights and opposition to violence.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report because the eu must invest all its resources to prevent radicalism and extremism in europe, which are constantly growing. more than 5000 young european citizens have joined various terrorist organisations and the tragic events of the past few days have highlighted the need for coordinated action by member states to restore europe's multicultural model. it's now more than clear that keeping problems off our borders doesn't keep them off our agenda. on the contrary, radicalism and terrorism are a global threat and we need to improve the exchange of information between national security services and europol so that suspects can be better tracked and followed. we also need to offer a successful integration model to all european citizens who are prone to radicalisation. it should cover the areas of education, social inclusion, the fight against discrimination, intercultural and interreligious dialogue.
in writing. – given the recent times of turmoil, the focus of this report is of even greater importance than ever before. an estimated 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations fighting in iraq and syria and it is crucial for us to take the precautions needed to prevent the radicalization and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organizations. adopting a report on this issue reflects the commitment of the european parliament to tackling radicalisation and taking further precautions against terrorist threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 because i and my colleagues from the eesc are convinced that there is no need for such a framework and for european legislation on osh. i think that the regulatory framework at national level is sufficiently comprehensive and clear, but i must point out that it is often ignored. we must therefore focus on the implementation and enforcement of safety rules by workers and employers, rather than creating new and new frameworks that remain on paper. my position is that this is entirely a matter for the national states, where there are already structures in place and functioning to ensure that health and safety at work is respected.
in writing. the international day for the elimination of violence against women is an occasion to draw the attention of the commission to this problem once again. in each member state there are national or ngo-organised 'hotlines' for women, adolescents and children who have experienced violence. each of these organizations has tried to use its expertise and resources to help those in need. this fragmentation and lack of coordination of efforts cannot lead to a unified policy, accurate statistics and effective measures to overcome women's problems. i find that the rights, equality and citizenship programme could finance the creation of a common european platform for quick and easy access by all women who have suffered violence. to this end, there should be both an eu-level body and bodies in the member states that jointly pursue a common policy to prevent and support the fight against violence against women.
mr president, the european commission's decision to stop the refugees in africa is a good one. but that's it. how long will europe be just a cash register and pay its own "quiet" tax? instead of money for protecting europe's borders, we'll pay for social programs in africa. europe should make a coalition with russia, with the united states of america against the islamists, not pay for the social systems of corrupt african regimes. if you will, we should even bring back the debate on the introduction of the death penalty for terrorists in the european parliament. why did the european commission promise turkey to support them for the "turkish stream", to sell russian gas to bulgaria and europe as turkish? they made a decision in the dark and without debate in parliament. shame on you! erdogan brazenly rackets three and a half billion a year to keep us from refugees. are we making this sultan into a european king? at the same time, we're hearing reports that his regime is the one that's trading with the islamists and buying oil. stop supporting turkish stream. let's not be greedy with turkey. countries like bulgaria, which are members of the european union, and depend on turkey and russia, need more money.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the last mandate i have spoken of the need for the european union to set up a genuine diplomacy on migration. now we're here. the valletta summit clearly set a milestone in international cooperation on migration, for the establishment of joint and multidimensional policies. this must be a point of no return in a more regular and balanced dialogue with our african partners, but also with other key partners in the mediterranean and the middle east, to face our shared responsibilities. the review of the european neighbourhood policy is also a good opportunity to do so. with this action plan, the challenge of adopting a multidimensional approach has been met. it is a very comprehensive document, but most of the commitments reflect objectives which have been the objectives of european development policy for years. eleven edfs and our results have not been enough to stem the mass exodus. our development policy can become more economically efficient. i would also remind you that this is an imperative in view of the revision of the cotonou agreement. i would like to stress three points. first, regional integration and capacity building of partner organisations such as the african union and the regional economic communities of africa. the european union must support regional mediation efforts and do more in conflict prevention, including through the african peace facility, an instrument we are not sufficiently familiar with. second, the potential of links between migrants and their home communities. as emphasised in the action plan, it is necessary to ensure that transfers of funds actually serve the development of the countries of origin. which brings me to my final point: circular migration. we cannot prevent people from leaving situations of conflict or poverty, but we must think in the medium and long term about incentives to return, because the development of the african continent also depends on the development of human potential, which is the continent's main economic resource. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr aker, i am not sure i have understood the question correctly because it seems to me that it raises two completely contradictory aspects as a question. in any case, my position is very clear: no member state can face alone the migration challenge we are trying to face today. only the united is strong. so today, perhaps, it is high time to learn from what has just happened to us, precisely because we have not been united and united enough. let us move forward and stop declarations or contradictions and amalgamations. now let us take action and above all, let us take common action.
mr. chairman, we had high hopes for the meeting in la valletta, months before we talked about the expected results, but the news from there is not enough. the only news from the summit was the emerging 1.8 billion euro fund, the unwillingness of member states to participate in it and the disapproval of african leaders over the lack of funds. we expected agreements to establish 'hotspots' with the countries of origin of migrants, which would be the first crossing point. we expected serious commitments to create working legal avenues. europe can make no good decisions without its partners in third countries. legal channels are the best way to fight human trafficking. however, it was not clear what specific general solutions could be taken to break up the criminal networks of the canal-keepers, who send people to certain deaths either at sea or on the balkan roads. there was also no answer to the most important question how will joint operations be carried out to return illegal immigrants who cannot obtain refugee status. this dialogue cannot be fully effective without the participation of the transit countries turkey, lebanon and jordan.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr the commissioner, mr minister, how long are we going to stand by and watch medieval barbarians cut off heads, crucify, drown and burn people alive, beat women with stones, blow us up even in our own cities? until evil has settled permanently on our continent? it is time for decisive action. we have an economy, we have potential, europe is an economic giant! but you know very well that we are not taken seriously in the political and military aspect. we lack the determination, the speed and the efficiency to eliminate the dangers. yes, our development policy should help the countries of africa and the middle east so that people there have perspective and are not motivated to go to our borders. the countries we help and from which the migrants who are subject to return must take back their own citizens unconditionally. it is time to create a pan-european security service with a common command, a pan-european intelligence and counter-intelligence agency. no country can better deal with today's global challenges on its own. it's clear that air strikes are necessary but not sufficient for ultimate success in syria. i hope that the light from the vienna talks and the g20 will not dim or go out even after the events on the turkish-syrian border. we need coordinated action by the international community now to eliminate the barbarians and cut off the funding of any terrorist movement, no matter where it comes from. enough of this talk! anyone who directly or indirectly funds and deals with terrorists is a terrorist, anyone who deals in human trafficking is a criminal. and it should be clear that all such assets in the european union and other democratic countries will be confiscated immediately and those individuals, companies, organizations or governments that engage in such activity must be held accountable.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, georgia is a country with a rich history and a distinct national culture. the country is undoubtedly part of european history and it was rightly celebrating the signing of the association agreement with the european union just a year ago. particularly impressive is the fact that more than 69% of the population support the agreement, and that there is a nationwide consensus for the country's membership in nato. for many years georgia was part of the soviet union and today it is seeking its european identity. as a person coming from a former communist country, i am clearly aware of the challenges facing the young georgian democracy. the disturbing events of the past few months are proof of this and we cannot but tolerate them. however, we must insist that all parties respect the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the media. georgia needs our continued support to cement its european path.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, dear colleagues, i would like to thank you for your interest, your support and your determination on this very difficult and controversial issue in our neighbourhood, with a lot of repercussions in many aspects. our discussion today has confirmed that we share the same concerns and that we agree on the need to continue support to moldova on its path towards political association and economic integration with the european union, as well as in its efforts to build a democratic society and to overcome the interest of individuals for the sake of the country. moldovan society expects its leaders to put an end to state capture; to fight corruption, carry out real reforms and recover the funds stolen from the banks. we remain ready to support moldova in all of this, but it is only moldovan political leaders who can make it happen. together with the implementation of the association agreement, this is key to enhancing the resilience and sustainability of the country. thank you for this very rich discussion and for your determination.
in writing. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the signing of the association and stabilisation agreement, moldova has embarked on the path towards deeper european integration. but this process is seriously threatened by the lack of political will to adopt the necessary reforms in the judiciary, the banking sector and the fight against corruption. moldova is in an extremely difficult political situation - 3 governments in one year! the stagnation of reforms and european integration is causing the population to lose faith in the institutions and the state is fragmenting. this is a serious problem because in moldova there are many ethnic communities along with moldovans, romanians and russians there are also very large bulgarian and gagauz communities. only by protecting the democratic, social, political and economic rights of all minorities will moldova be able to ensure its territorial integrity and the country will be able to move forward towards deeper european integration. moldova is a european country and we are all connected to it, historically and culturally, and i hope that one day we will accept it as a full member of the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, like georgia and ukraine, moldova signed an association agreement with the eu a year ago and has been enjoying its deep european integration. the european family is the future of moldova and its people, despite the country's difficult historical past. unfortunately, in recent months we have witnessed a number of violations and deviations from european values in the country. the widespread corruption in the upper echelons of power and the lack of the rule of law are calling into question the country's european path. the demands of civil society for the depoliticization of the judiciary and the fight against corruption are not heard, and this benefits the pro-russian parties in the country. i therefore believe that the eu should support a new form of government that works to meet the demands of civil society and restore moldova's pro-european course. we must help ensure a free electoral process that will be conducted in accordance with the highest european standards, so that we can give the country a realistic european perspective.
madam president, we welcome the appeal for a wholly new approach to the management of eu investment and spending. certainly the eu budget should be better aligned to the long-term strategic priorities. at the same time, it should be more agile and allow a higher degree of responsiveness to the changing parameters of the dynamic environment. in order to achieve the optimal outcome from the introduction of performance-based budgeting, not only should the intended results be clear, but the financial resources should also be spent lawfully and the intended result accomplished. in order to reduce the level of errors, it is of the utmost importance to undertake massive simplification of the procedures. despite the positive steps taken by the commission in introducing the ‘budget focused on results’, we should be aware of several issues. firstly, this new approach should be introduced carefully and should take account of the impact of irregularities on added value. secondly, there should be a precise timetable for its introduction, and lastly, we should achieve a common understanding among the eu institutions about the indicators that we will use to measure results.
madam president, with this year’s 38th annual report, the court is inviting us to start applying an updated approach to our discharge procedure for determining whether the commission has satisfactorily carried out its responsibilities for implementing the budget. thus the report represents a most timely and valuable input to discharge: designing and putting into practice results-oriented budgeting is an urgent necessity so that citizens recognise that their money is being put to the best possible use. in this regard, three features of the report deserve particular notice. the structuring of chapters to reflect the headings of the multiannual financial framework (mff) which came into force in 2014 is a most valuable input towards the mid-term review of the mff. chapter 3 focuses on the extent to which the performance framework enables the commission to monitor and steer progress towards europe 2020. the stated purpose is that checking the legality and reliability of accounts is intended to assist in identifying risks affecting economy, efficiency and effectiveness. this is precisely the right focus for ever-better results-oriented budgeting, and it is here, i believe, that the court deserves a particular word of thanks. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– in the briefest possible terms, i believe that the focus over the years has been a bit one-sided on error rates and observance of rules. this, of course, has to continue to be of particular concern. however, it should be used as an indicator to find sectors where programmes are not performing and there is an excessively high rate, and to reorientate the whole exercise of discharge towards results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been a consistent supporter and participant in the reconstruction process in afghanistan since 2001. as we did 15 years ago, we stand today for a peaceful, democratic and stable afghanistan. there have been some positive developments in the country, but unfortunately it continues to be a hotbed of terrorism and extremism, which has led to thousands of innocent victims. recently, we have witnessed ethnic conflict, and large minority groups have been raped and attacked. after the united states and other nato members withdrew their troops from afghanistan, the situation in the country has obviously deteriorated. we can't leave her alone because there are many disturbing processes going on. the taliban are becoming more active, and we're also seeing a significant presence of isis in most provinces. we need to support the authorities to ensure the safety of the innocent population. we need to work together to root out terrorism and extremism from the country, because it's a threat to all global security.
in writing. ‒ i supported the foreign trade committee resolution to the european parliament because it set out the objectives of working towards the ratification and adoption of the trade facilitation agreement at the forthcoming tenth wto ministerial conference in nairobi, kenya, as a step forward in the development of trade. the chances of this agreement being adopted are high, as it is being considered separately from the doha development agenda, which has been stalled for almost 15 years. it is well known that the differences in the positions of the doha development agenda negotiating parties are profound and the chances of making progress in this regard are minimal. this resolution recognises this and proposes that efforts be directed towards the adoption of sectoral international agreements such as the trade facilitation agreement, the information technology agreement and the natural resources agreement. only in this way will the international community be able to overcome the stagnation in the development of trade relations caused by the long-standing negotiations on the doha development agenda.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru. the resolution is comprehensive on the one hand it draws attention to the current economic and social situation in the country and in particular to the strong economic growth in recent years and the significant reduction in poverty, and on the other hand it criticizes environmental problems such as deforestation and issues related to indigenous communities. the european union needs to develop its trade relations with fast-developing regions such as latin america, as this will provide many opportunities for mutual investment and overall contribute to the economic growth of both regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 because i believe that animals should be protected from abuse and cruelty. according to various studies, violence against animals has its reflection and continuation in violence against humans. an example of inhumane treatment in bulgaria is the use of horse-drawn carts or donkeys on the road. this is happening in a european capital like sofia and it's unacceptable. there's also evidence of organized pet fights. i believe that a strategy is needed and that action is needed against those who commit such acts and for that reason i support the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution calling on the european commission to draw up a new and more ambitious animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the commission should also address, among other issues, a number of important issues relating to the needs and problems of specific animal species, such as pets and problems relating to their registration and identification, the growing need to develop an action plan on trade and trafficking in exotic and wild animals and the welfare of animals kept in captivity and in circuses. in some member states these issues are regulated to a greater or lesser extent, but in the absence of uniform and harmonised european legislation, all issues relating to the welfare of these animals will be subject to different interpretation, which will ultimately lead only to legal uncertainty. this in turn would only bring losses losses to european competitiveness, public health and the health and welfare of the animals themselves. in this connection, i believe that the european commission should give these matters careful thought and, in the time remaining until the end of the year, present us with a concrete and adequate policy taking account of all the problems listed by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020, as i believe that a single legislative framework at european level is needed to strengthen the common understanding of animal welfare. that framework should cover the different aspects of the legislation, including animal health, zootechnical conditions, organic production and official controls. a pan-european approach will not only strengthen the competitiveness of the internal market but also send a clear signal to third country trading partners to respect equivalent standards for imported animals and products. the high level of european standards is directly linked to the quality of products of animal origin and hence to consumer confidence. the common agricultural policy may provide adequate funding for animal welfare activities in order to prevent the diversion of production and trade to countries with lower animal welfare standards. further incentives under the common agricultural policy are needed for investments in farms with a view to improving animal welfare. this will not only make the final product more competitive on the market, but also improve the position of producers in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution and believe that there should be a strategy to ensure the education of children in emergency situations. education is a guarantee of development and has an impact on the widest range of areas of our daily lives. it's also a guarantee of a good future. we cannot allow a regression and an increase in illiteracy, that would be detrimental to our society. when we admit migrants fleeing conflict to the eu, all those who have gained status must be educated by us, because their integration into our society is mandatory. otherwise, marginalization can only deepen, and this leads to many subsequent problems and above all radicalization - the most urgent threat of the moment, which has however been rooted in the western world for many years and is deepening due to the lack of a strong and decisive policy of the western countries.
in writing. ‒ the easier access to european funds is, the more likely my country is to be able to absorb a large part of the european funds allocated to it. i hope that will happen after this resolution is adopted, especially since two of my compatriots are involved in drafting it. in many respects, european administration is cumbersome and complex, and that is why i always support such documents that make it easier to apply for european projects. of course, these facilitations must not lead to bad practices, non-compliance with the rules or even abuse. i support this motion for a resolution, but i ask the responsible authorities to follow up and punish all offenders with the utmost severity.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the resolution on cutting red tape in european financing is to reduce the paperwork, time and money lost in applying for, managing and reporting on eu operational programme projects. the document sets as important objectives the switch to fully electronic communication with the beneficiaries of european funds and the reduction of data and information requirements for project promoters. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
- what? the chairman, mr minister, commissioner, firstly, on the domestic front, we have to do our homework together to protect the external borders of the european union as a shared responsibility of all member states, fight against human trafficking, a common intelligence agency, common rules on migration. secondly, in terms of foreign policy, the question we face is what is better with or without turkey, we will deal better with this global challenge. of course the answer is not only with turkey and with lebanon and with jordan and with the african countries we have to work more closely, but we have to say clearly and be frank the negotiations with turkey are different compared to the previous accession negotiations. the negotiations are open ended and no decision has been taken on turkey's full membership of the european union. such membership is not possible at this time. it is of course important for us to negotiate with turkey, to have a predictable partner in the south-east, a neighbour who respects european law, respects its commitments, a neighbour who accepts our legislation. through negotiations, we can also support turkish civil society and turkish democracy. all of this has to be done by opening and closing the negotiating chapters. but we have to watch closely whether our outstretched hand will lead to an improvement in the human rights situation and media freedom. we must first of all do everything in our power to ensure that the millions of people on the syrian border with turkey, lebanon and jordan stay there and do not go to the european borders. every euro invested in this is many times more euros saved by the livelihoods of these people if they were in the european union. we must also, of course, monitor the funds we give for this, together with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. of course we need to cooperate more in europe and a common intelligence service and a common command. you know very well, or you may not know, that unfortunately this cooperation between our special services is not going as well as it should. only a few countries share information, and for me, addressing global challenges comes through our joint efforts, including a common european army, an idea that goes back to the 1950s for a common defense community in the european union, not duplicating nato and our commitments to the euro-atlantic treaty.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, when i hear mr de graaff and some of his colleagues refer to the beauty of european civilisation, the way they do it i am reminded of what ghandi said when he was asked what he thought about european civilisation. his answer was: ‘it would be a good idea’. let us not lose track of the reasons for people coming to europe. they are not coming to europe because mrs merkel invited them, they are coming to europe because they want their children not to be victims of barrel bombs thrown from assad’s planes. (applause)they want to come to europe because they do not want to be slaughtered by daesh or al-nusra in other parts of syria. they want to come to europe because after years of an atrocious war, they have nowhere else to go if they want their children to have an education, if they want to have healthcare, if they want a future that every single one of you wants for yourself and your children as well. we are talking about human beings. we are not talking about fortune-seekers invited by mrs merkel. mrs merkel took responsibility to offer international protection when it was necessary. we would have less trouble in europe if every single leader of europe had done the same when it was necessary at the time. (applause)now let me insist on some of the push factors, because it is important for the agreement we have reached with turkey. as i said before, why are some people leaving from turkey or through turkey to europe? talk to them, try it! these are nice people, educated people; these are people who can tell you a story. they will tell you: ‘i have left because after two years i am finished, all my savings are gone and i am not allowed to work in turkey’. so what did we do? we agreed with the turks that they would allow syrians to start working in turkey very soon. that is part of what we have discussed. they say: ‘i am leaving because there is no education for my children’. this is exactly what we are going to do: we are going to use the eur 3 billion to make sure that there are more facilities for education for children where they are now in turkey. they say: ‘we are leaving because our living conditions are horrible and we do not have access to medical care’. these eur 3 billion will be used to improve living conditions and to improve medical care. it is not just the right thing to do, it is the smart thing to do, because keeping people there and offering them help there is much cheaper for the european taxpayer and is much cheaper in moral terms, because it takes the smugglers out of the equation. it takes the danger out of the equation for people having to cross the mediterranean in very difficult conditions. so when we have these agreements on these projects, it is to take away some of the push factors. this, i think, is a smart approach. visa liberalisation. why are we on this trajectory with the turks? because if we aligned our visa policies, it would be easier for the turks to act at their external borders when people come from pakistan, bangladesh or other countries who do not have the right to international protection and should then be stopped at the borders. visa liberalisation also means that we can create the right conditions for turkey to have the right kind of passports: biometric passports. it would make it much easier for us to control our borders. these are positive measures for the european union. do not portray everything as though we are on our knees for turkey and giving things away. then about the chapters. i really do not understand some here, like ms keller, who just now said: ‘we do not want to talk, we have given up on human rights, we accept everything’. benchmarking chapter 23 and 24 is the best possible way of engaging turkey in a debate on human rights. opening chapters 23 and 24 is the best possible way of forcing the turks to account for what they are doing and to try and help them reform the system so that they move away from the mistakes they make today. so do you really think that we will improve the situation in turkey by turning our backs on the turks and saying: ‘oh, let it go’? i do not think so. i think this engaging with them will yield results. and yes, of course, we are engaging with them because we need to stem the flow of those coming to europe who do not have the right to international protection. of course we are doing that – but it is in our interest to do so, it is in the interests of the refugees to do so and it is in the interest of turkey to do so. there is no shame in coming to an agreement based on mutual interest.
in writing. the eu-turkey deal is a continuation of the wrong european policy to deal with the migrant problem. this agreement is a capitulation of europe and of the european leaders who, by signing it, admitted that they cannot defend their borders on their own. the three billion euros that will be given to turkey should be invested in refugee camps, where basic needs such as water, food and medical supplies are lacking. whether that happens depends entirely on turkey itself. why doesn't the eu demand that turkey open its labour market to refugees and send their children to school? because if that happens and the living conditions of the refugees improve, they will not risk their lives to flee to the eu. it is clear that this is not in the interest of turkey, which will continue to facilitate the smuggling of migrants into the eu and will continue to support the 'islamic state'.
in writing.– the circular economy (ce) package is a forward-looking step, an excellent example of the policies we need to adopt in order to tackle challenges like climate change, job creation, economic and social development. it is key to the new business model in europe, which should focus on innovations and efficiency, smart regulation and competitiveness. through the circular economy, we can achieve eur 600 billion for eu businesses, create 580 000 jobs and reduce eu carbon emissions by 450 million tonnes per year. for the circular economy to work and deliver on these ambitious goals, we need to ensure that small and big companies alike are supported in the establishment of a more resource-efficient industry. i thus urge the commission to establish the necessary regulations and incentives in order to ensure that smes are well integrated into the ce. in this regard, the planned establishment of a european resource efficiency excellence centre, the reinforcement of the resource efficiency element of the enterprise europe network and the work stream of clusters are welcome developments we need to build on. another important step would be making small enterprises aware of the funding possibilities for resource efficiency improvements, such as the financial instruments under cosme and the natural capital financing facility (ncff).
in writing.– the eu has called 2015 european year for development and once again proved to be a pillar in world development policy. we are the biggest donor of official assistance and development policy is an important area of our foreign policy. the primary objective of eu development cooperation is to reduce and eradicate poverty which has multiple and interlinked economic, political, and security causes. not only that, our aim is to promote human rights and to spread democracy, good governance and the rule of law. unfortunately, the ongoing conflicts and humanitarian crises in neighbouring regions proved that development policy cannot achieve these objectives as a stand-alone policy, but must be integrated into a broader approach which combines foreign and security policy, trade and any other external action policy instruments. the eu need a comprehensive and coherent strategy for its development aid in order to meet the united nations’ post 2015 development goals. goals which are very, very difficult like goal number 16 – live in peace. it is not only a moral obligation, it is our duty to work for a stable, prosperous and more equitable world.
author. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank you, commissioner, but also the luxembourg presidency and, in particular, minister mutsch for their efforts to unblock the situation with regard to this draft directive. unfortunately, two years after the european parliament's vote on first reading, i could almost quote word for word from the speech i made in plenary on that occasion. parliament has done its part and it is up to the member states to roll up their sleeves and put into practice the commitments they have made for gender equality in europe. let me first of all recall the facts, because it seems that there are still some unrelenting sceptics about the potential of this directive. on the one hand, experience has shown that a greater presence of women on boards translates into better governance and economic performance. again, what are we waiting for to unlock the potential of women and empower us to achieve economic and social goals? on the other hand, the facts also show that legislative pressure works. between the publication of the proposal for a directive and today, we have gone from 15.8% to more than 20% of women on boards. the trend of progress has been markedly stronger since there has been european legislative pressure. companies anticipate the effects of the directive and select competent women. i would also like to stress once again the snowball effect that we can expect from this directive: positive effects at different levels of the hierarchy, in particular through the related measures that could be put in place. so for those of you who are not convinced, at least be pragmatic. the second general comment is that the legal basis chosen, the instrument chosen, which is the directive, and the proposals made by parliament already offer a great deal of leeway to the member states. in the end, all we have been waiting for, and have been waiting for two years now, is a commitment from the member states and consistent action to achieve real results. in conclusion, three key words: responsibility, flexibility and concrete commitment. and behind each of these words, the member states.
in writing. mr president, the proposal for a directive on women in management boards, which was supported at first reading by the european parliament, is a small legislative step in view of its narrow scope of impact, but it provides an important example of the real implementation of gender equality policy in the european union. without this example, we would not expect that smes would also encourage women to take up managerial positions. the issue of women's career development is not just a nuance in gender equality policy, but also part of an economically sound balance in decision-making. i therefore call on the council, the member states and the forthcoming dutch presidency to make every effort to overcome their differences of opinion and to demonstrate in practice the importance of a horizontal gender equality policy.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, today we are discussing once again the situation in hungary, as we did about six months ago. in view of all the other undoubtedly worrying issues, i think this debate is completely unnecessary, it is a waste of time, a waste of effort, with one sole purpose - to make another pointless criticism of the government of viktor orbán. i am even less in favour of the idea of preparing a lot of resolutions on this subject. how will these resolutions be different from the one that was proposed on june 10th? on 10 june we asked the commission to carry out a monitoring exercise on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. yes, all member states must respect the obligations they have assumed and protect fundamental rights, but yes, we all have the right to an opinion and the right to express and defend that opinion, but we should not interfere in the monitoring procedure, as it does not fall within the competence of this legislature. according to article 17 of the treaty on european union, only the european commission has the competence to conduct such an investigation and only it has the right to determine whether european law and treaties have been infringed. ladies and gentlemen, i have been listening to this discussion for some time and i think the following: i just heard that viktor orbán's behaviour was dangerous. no, i don't think he did. i think the behavior of those who don't understand what's happening in europe is dangerous. the behavior of those of our colleagues who do not understand that the situation has changed radically, that we are currently at war and that this war will not end unless we defend our values, our national states. the rest is a waste of time, the rest is largely, ladies and gentlemen, empty talk and hypocrisy.
in writing. ‒ a special committee on tax rulings in the european parliament already existed. the mandates of the special committees are six months each, and this was even extended until the end of november 2015. now they want to make a new one with the same name and functions, and even the first one had no clear results. i stress that this is a matter for the member states and that tax policy cannot and should not be decided at the level of the european union. i do not understand why there is a need for another special committee of this kind, given that there is a working group on these matters, and it is chaired by my colleagues on the committee on economic affairs. but if such a committee is to be set up, although my vote is against it, i am not against its current composition.
in writing. – i welcome the decision for the work of parliament’s special committee on tax rulings to be continued under a new mandate for six months. harmful corporate tax regimes and practices at european and international level could hinder considerably economic growth. therefore, i voted in favour because i fully support the ‘good governance’ practice in the tax area (i.e. more transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition).
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-liechtenstein agreement on taxation of savings in the form of interest payments. the creation of safe and enforceable measures for economic operators equivalent to those in the taxation directive is a positive development. we still suffer too often from financial crimes taking advantage of the different levels of security and safeguards. by levelling out, we can tackle financial crime in a more efficient and transparent way. the updating of the amendment protocol is a welcome change, creating oecd global standards that are compatible with eu standards. data protection is now more important than ever, especially in light of recent political developments.
in writing. – i am in favour of the agreement between the eu and liechtenstein concerning the exchange of information on the bank accounts of each other’s residents, because i believe it will allow a more transparent and open flow of information regarding tax fraud. tax evasion siphons away money that could be invested in productive resources needed to diversify the economy and address social and environmental problems.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the european ombudsman's special report on frontex's own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz, as i consider frontex to be an agency that is different in nature from other eu agencies and institutions. the current situation is not the time to impose an additional administrative burden on the agency. hundreds of thousands of migrants enter the eu every day, and instead of criticizing frontex, we need to strengthen its capacity to respond adequately to a crisis that could destroy the eu.
in writing. – i support the european ombudsman’s position that frontex set up a complaints mechanism on fundamental rights infringements occurring in the course of its operations. fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers should not be undermined in any way and it is the right of every person to be able to file a complaint when he or she believes his rights are being violated.
in writing. ‒ it takes each citizen an average of one and a half hours a day to travel to and from work. in monetary terms, each hour spent on the road is 80% of that employee's hourly wage. on the other hand, the main polluters in urban areas are private cars. we must therefore aim at both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing the travel time of people to and from their workplaces. so far, no other way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions has been found than to switch from conventional fuels to biofuels or electricity. of course, these measures will not be effective unless new ways of managing traffic are introduced. the introduction of the its is a step towards that governance. of course, we must also pay attention to the protection of the health of pedestrians and other road users. i support this report and hope that it will lay the foundations for the creation of sustainable urban mobility, which will lead to less pollution, shorter travel distances and, of course, fewer road deaths.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on member states and the commission to promote sustainable urban mobility. the approach aims to move towards resource-efficient transport systems and to significantly reduce pollution and congestion in cities. the trend towards urban population growth is not likely to change in the foreseeable future. this requires the need to pursue specific policies for urban mobility and work to ensure sufficient parking spaces and accessible, fast and environmentally friendly public transport. urban mobility projects are usually large and expensive undertakings. that is why the european union's co-financing is key.
in writing. – sustainable urban mobility is an important element of improving citizens’ quality of life, strengthening the economy and, thus, achieving a more sustainable development on a regional and european level. in bulgaria, concrete steps are being taken towards the implementation of the green city philosophy but much work is left to be done. that is why i am in favour of the report and the dedication of part of eu funds for sustainable urban mobility projects.
member of the commission.– mr president, firstly i would like to warmly thank the committee on legal affairs and congratulate the rapporteur, cecilia wikström, for the excellent and successful work on the trade mark reform package. both this work and the very constructive spirit that i observed in the negotiations facilitated reaching an agreement after more than two years of complex discussions. regardless of its apparently technical character, the trade mark reform package constitutes a key element for the eu’s competitiveness and innovation strategy. the reform package will foster innovation and growth by making the trade mark registration system all over the eu more accessible and efficient for businesses, whether in terms of lower cost, increased speed, more predictability or legal certainty. the clear benefits of the compromise package are there for all to see. the package marks a significant step in both the modernisation and the further harmonisation of the trade mark system in europe. allow me now to highlight just a few of these benefits. firstly, the agreed fee reductions at european union level will lead to savings of up to almost 40%, in particular for businesses that seek protection of the registered eu trademarks beyond an initial period of ten years. secondly, the reform of the directive will ensure more streamlined, efficient and harmonised registration procedures across all trademark offices in the european union. faster and less burdensome procedures will constitute a great improvement for growing companies, mainly smes, which roll out their business beyond one member state and are seeking trade mark protection. the arrangements for common application requirements and the future availability of administrative opposition and cancellation procedures at national level are a good illustration of this. thirdly, trade mark owners in the eu will have better tools to fight against counterfeit goods, in particular when these illegal imitations are in transit through the eu’s territory. this will help prevent abuse of the union and its transit routes in its role as a central hub for the worldwide distribution of such goods. at the same time there will be appropriate safeguards in the interest of legitimate trade. and fourthly, the reform will bring modernised rules and increased legal certainty by adapting trade mark rules to the modern business environment and clarifying trade mark rights and their limitations. in relation to the regulation regarding the procedure of preselection and appointment of an executive director of the agency in alicante that is responsible for administering the eu trade mark system, it has to be stressed from the commission’s point of view that the final text is not aligned with the principles of the eu’s interinstitutional common approach on decentralised agencies. notwithstanding this shortcoming and also the fact that key elements of the commission’s proposals concerning the budget were not retained, the final text of the regulation will nevertheless bring about major improvements in the governance and accountability of the agency. thus, considering the overall compromise that has been achieved, the commission welcomes very much and endorses the agreed compromise package.
the following table is provided: first of all, congratulations on your victory, and now, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague mrs vikström and the other shadow rapporteurs for their efforts. i think that after long and difficult negotiations we have managed to achieve a relatively good result. the agreement has many positive aspects and we in the ecr group have also fought for this good result. however, one of our major concerns remains the budget surplus of ohim and the reference to the budget of the european union. yes, it specifies where and how it can be used, promising to be used to fight copyright infringement. but still, in my opinion and in the opinion of a large part of my group, this money should be returned to the national ip offices, because they are the ones who can best allocate how exactly it should be used and be useful to those who have paid to have a community trademark. this money could be invested, for example, in an anti-counterfeiting programme, but only the national offices could determine where and what these funds would best be used for.
in writing. the european microfinance facility progress is an opportunity that all member states should seize to build a positive impact on their local economies, boosting youth employment and providing sustainable jobs for disadvantaged people, immigrants and others. the instrument is also not currently applied in all member states and, where it is applied, there is insufficient awareness and it does not reach potential beneficiaries. unfortunately, the rate of rejection of projects for applications is still too high in the member states. very often, entrepreneurs prefer to apply for expensive loans because the bureaucracy from the time of applying to receiving the loan, and in monitoring afterwards, is too heavy. the instrument should complement, and not overlap, with funding from the european social fund. we have eur 919 469 000 available for the new programming period. maximising efficiency, delivering real added value and measurable results is needed e.g. monitoring the percentage of microfinance entrepreneurs realised progress i recommend: clearer application procedures, more information, less red tape and easier access for micro-enterprises.
i strongly protest against the visit of turkish prime minister davutoglu to bulgaria at a time when the republic of turkey is openly participating in the civil war in syria on the side of the islamist terrorist groups. i assess turkey's military activity as an unacceptable violation of international law and the sovereign state borders of the republic of iraq and the syrian arab republic. it is beyond any doubt that the republic of turkey is the main organiser of the migrant flow that is flooding the european continent. in this connection, i find the turkish authorities' demand for 3 billion euros of our money to be paid to them to meet their obligations, to be blackmail and racketeering. to protect the european union, of which we are a part, it must reject the erdogan-davutoglu racket, close its borders to illegal immigration, isolate islamist turkey, which is aiding the islamic state and sabotaging the international effort against the jihadists. we owe nothing to the republic of turkey, on the contrary, it has outstanding debts to the descendants of thracian refugees in the amount of millions of dollars under the angora treaty it signed. i insist that the question of the payment of these turkish debts be put clearly and loudly to the bulgarian authorities. i insist that no support be expressed for the continuation of turkey's negotiations for membership of the european union, because there is no place for it in the union and davutoglu must understand this in sofia. he also needs to understand that sofia will not support the allocation of billions to the islamist regime in ankara.
blue-card question.– mr lamberts, do you not think that what is really lacking is domestic demand? that is the critical factor which is stymieing growth. mr dijsselbloem has laid the accent on competitiveness, and the first point in the five presidents’ report is these competitiveness councils. now that only means additional pressure on wages so that seemingly things will start growing. do you not think that is nonsense?
today there were a number of concerns, but it is really good to remember that for the third year in a row the european union is actually on the road to economic recovery. we expect european gross domestic product to increase by 2% in 2016. yes, the percentages are still low, but the important thing is that we are moving in the direction of growth. partial consumption is also increasing, financing and employment are improving. perhaps it is time to acknowledge not only the problems and shortcomings but also the successes of european economic governance. for example, the juncker plan is already in place, with over €44 billion of additional funding mobilised for around 100 projects in 18 member states. the commission communication on the european structural and investment funds yesterday underlines that by 2023, €637 billion of european and national co-financing will be invested through over 500 different programmes under the european structural and investment funds. this is the place, and as my colleague nibler mentioned, of national responsibility. member states should increase the use of financial instruments and make full use of synergies between the structural funds and the efsi and other sources of funding, such as horizon 2020 at project level, at financial instrument level and through investment platforms. finally, i would like to stress the importance of a strong currency in the european union. the uk's desire for the european union to be declared a multi-currency union could be exploited by a number of other member states, which would make the european union more uncertain in its fiscal and economic outlook.
in writing. ‒ switzerland is not an eu member state, but has nevertheless decided to join the european asylum support office and contribute with funding, additional staff and a quota of 1500 refugees. while i'm against the quota system, i'm for the idea that a country has the ability and the sovereign right to choose whether or not to join it. i supported the report 'agreement with the swiss confederation on the terms and conditions for its participation in the european asylum support office' precisely because it reflects a sovereign decision by switzerland to participate in the european refugee resettlement policy.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement was signed between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including the dominican republic, to abolish short-stay visas. i supported the report because i believe that the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas represents an achievement in the deepening of relations with the dominican community, which is also of great political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and of enhancing political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas was signed between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including the republic of vanuatu. i supported the report as i consider that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an achievement in the deepening of relations with the republic of vanuatu, which is also of great political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and of enhancing political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas was signed between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including the republic of trinidad and tobago. i supported the report because i believe that the abolition of visas will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and allow for a strengthening of relations between the two countries and a new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement was signed on the abolition of short-stay visas between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including samoa. i supported the report because i believe that as one of the most dynamic pacific island countries, samoa has significant potential for development. the abolition of short-stay visas is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural links and of enhancing political dialogue on a number of issues and, not least, could have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement was signed on the abolition of short-stay visas between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including grenada. i supported the report because grenada is a democratic and stable state which, like the european union, defends democratic values and principles, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the conclusion of this agreement will allow for the strengthening of cooperation and the deepening of dialogue in a number of areas, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an achievement in the deepening of relations between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor, which has great political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement, as well as being an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and of enhancing political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i supported the agreement because it represents an opportunity to exploit economic relations and to develop tourism. the eu is now the third largest trading partner of the pacific countries, after australia and china. however, the eu is still the sixth largest exporter to east timor. the abolition of visas is therefore also an additional incentive for entrepreneurs and european investors.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement was signed between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including saint lucia, to abolish short-stay visas. i supported the report because, despite being a young country with limited resources, saint lucia has managed to achieve and even exceed some of the millennium development goals, demonstrating its commitment to fundamental rights while seeking to create an enabling environment for investment and private sector development. the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas has the potential to strengthen relations with the eu, to give a new impetus to trade and to increase tourist flows.
in writing. ‒ in may this year, an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas was signed between the eu and seven countries in the so-called african, caribbean and pacific region, including saint vincent and the grenadines. i supported the abolition of short-stay visas because i believe that the agreement represents a unique achievement in the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, which also carries great political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement. it is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and of enhancing political dialogue on a range of issues and will allow for further strengthening of relations between the two countries and a new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the eu and the uae. the fact is that the uae is an industrialized country with high incomes, which is also a popular tourist destination. but i can't ignore the fact that there's been a recent increase in suspicions of cooperation between the uae and the islamic state. i think they are justified and the abolition of the visa regime would, in my view, pose a threat to the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust, as it aims to strengthen cooperation between the two, while respecting their respective mandates. a provision which deserves particular attention is article 3 (5) of the mou, according to which 'the exchange of information or experience provided for in the memorandum does not include the transmission of operational information including data relating to an identified or identifiable person'. i think this approach is right, because we have to be very careful about what we do with the data protection guarantee.
in writing. - no, i do not support this report. we all know that there have been no problems with the member states' contributions so far, but on the other hand we want to introduce stricter measures and increase the interest on late payments, even though there are none or almost none. most countries have different accounting systems for budgetary contributions, and we want to see a uniform approach. let's make changes first in this direction and only then demand new measures. yes, there are good things here, like the depoliticization of the budget, but that's not enough for me to support the report. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the allocation and adjustment of member states' contributions to the union budget should not be the subject of political bargaining but should be a technical process. the proposed changes to the methods of contribution adjustments are intended to avoid a repeat of the 2014 scenario. the report stresses that these adjustments to contributions should be made as automatically as possible in order to avoid political interference in the agreed ways of financing the union budget. the report also emphasises the need for effective rules on how member states make their contributions available to the union budget in a timely manner in order to enable the commission to manage its cash efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is not a good investment for me or my political group. i'm voting against this fund on principle, as i did this time. in this case, more than eur 2 million is being provided to reintegrate 1200 finnish workers into the labour market, through training, etc. yes, the eu should support growth, push through policies that create jobs, but this fund is not the right fit.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the objective of harmonising trademark registration systems to ensure compatibility and complementarity. such modernisation is necessary and vital to improve effective enforcement. modernising terminology, streamlining the different applications and registration procedures, and improving cooperation are key to improving the current state of affairs. however, the budgetary issue remains a cause of political division. the return of the considerable budget surplus of ohim back to the eu budget, in whatever form, i consider to be a superfluous, insignificant and hypocritical decision taken solely by the ec. this is not a decision the commission can make on its own. in fact, i think that this money should be put back into the national intellectual property offices to develop and promote the trademark system. in fact, this money will be used for these purposes only. i am therefore deeply concerned why these funds should go to the ec budget at all.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the commission's proposal is to promote innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems more accessible across the eu. in an increasingly competitive environment, the increase in the number of trademark applications both at national and eu level and the increase in the number of trademark users demonstrate their crucial role in terms of market success and commercial value. this development has been accompanied by increasing expectations on the part of stakeholders to improve the quality of trade mark registration systems, which are more consistent, accessible to the public and technologically up-to-date. the european parliament shall approve the council's position at first reading and instruct its president to sign the act after verifying that all procedures have been duly completed.
in writing. - i fully support this proposal. it has succeeded in focusing and retaining some of the most important issues, with an emphasis on enhancing consumer and rightholder protection compatible with national legal systems, good governance of the octs and improving competitiveness. it is very important to focus on these issues if we want an effective system of coexistence and complementarity between the european and national trademark systems.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it concerns the proposal to transpose various measures already available in eu legislation. it is important that fisheries ensure sustainable economic, environmental and social benefits. since those measures are already directly applicable to member states, the regulation rightly provides more legal certainty with regard to commercial fishing activities in the north-east atlantic.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report ending the application of the exceptional trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina. all the other balkan countries have already adapted the stabilisation and association agreement with the accession of croatia to the eu. bosnia and herzegovina has not yet done so, and its privileges in this respect should be revoked before the end of the year. the future european integration of the countries in the zone is necessary and can only lead to the much-desired stability of the balkans, but in this case bosnia and herzegovina is called upon to adapt the interim agreement to preferential trade with croatia following the accession of the latter to the european union on 1 july 2013. at the same time, it calls on the parties to take account of mutual interests in order to reach an agreement satisfactory both for the eu member states and for the cefta members.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol because i believe that the uae is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, as recent data show that the country is becoming a growing centre for economic and financial crime. it is also important to note that the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data and that the information exchanged may include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. i believe that in the current situation of migration crisis and terrorist threat it is important for europe to cooperate with as many countries as possible in the fight against cross-border crime and organised crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement on the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol, as it is aimed at strengthening europol, which must have the means to bring real added value to this area. the strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates is essential, as the country is an indispensable partner as a focal point in the fight against multiple criminal activities. the agreement will also improve the multilateral cooperation between the uae, the member states and europol in the fight against terrorism, which needs to be strengthened. finally, the agreement respects the principle of proportionality, since it excludes the transfer of personal data and is limited to the exchange of strategic information.
in writing. - i can't afford to support the report. there's a lot of things about him that, to put it mildly, bother me. there's a lot of talk about renewables and energy efficiency, but no mention of a nuclear power plant that's proven to be clean and as cheap as possible. we don't comment on this energy and we try to dismiss it as a possible step towards stopping dependence on one side or the other when it comes to energy dependence. and here in this document, the question of fracking remains open. it's a method of extracting fossil fuels that has already been proven almost 100% harmful and expensive. for this very reason it should not be allowed within the community. the report only talks about the north stream, it is now quite clear that the turkish stream will not be realized, is it not time to talk again about the construction of the south stream, but, of course, on our terms.
in writing. – europe imports 53% of its gross inland energy consumption and i believe energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes, is a vital part of building a strong and sustainable european energy union. the completion of the internal energy market, which could bring net economic benefits for europe of between eur 16 and 40 billion each year, requires various initiatives to be accomplished. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i do not support this report. i cannot support something that recommends connecting the electricity grid infrastructure with the republic of turkey and north africa. the union must not cooperate in any way with countries which openly support one or other terrorist structure. it's been proven that lately the only thing north africa exports is terrorists, and the only thing it imports is illegal weapons. even if this were to change, the electricity they produce is unlikely to be energy efficient and meet the environmental requirements and standards that the eu is strictly trying to enforce.
in writing. - mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to vote in favour of the report on achieving 10% interconnection in the eu. although this objective seems too small for the larger goals of creating an integrated energy market, it reflects the current realities in the union's energy sector. twelve member states on the periphery of the eu are still isolated from the internal electricity market. i support the regional approach of working to increase connectivity between neighbouring countries, which can better identify which connections are the most priority and have the greatest impact on their energy security and on the single regional electricity market. therefore, projects of common interest to the community in the field of electricity infrastructure should also be prioritised on a regional basis. central and south-eastern europe needs more cooperation and coordination in building regional grid infrastructure that makes the best use of both the existing large electricity generation capacity and the huge and largely untapped potential for renewable energy. however, i note that the connectivity ratio criterion in relation to installed capacity in the member states is one-sided and does not reflect the objectives of energy security and a single energy market and more parameters should be selected in the future to track energy connectivity in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support any funding from europe, especially now that my country is experiencing great economic difficulties and a very large part of bulgarians live on the edge of poverty. i am surprised that only 1,000 bulgarians have managed to find work under the progress programme, which is why i welcome the desire to improve access to microfinance. i supported this report, although there are some concerns, such as the fact that some of the target groups are immigrants and ethnic minorities, which puts them in a privileged position, as always, but i like that here we also aim to reach out to the long-term unemployed and people living in rural areas, as well as those working in the gray economy. if we can even get a little closer to the last ones, it'll be a great victory for us and the entire union. this is the way to grow the eu economy, not direct grants, but loans to businesses, which leads to high added value.
in writing. – in my work and activities as a member of the european parliament, among other initiatives, i fully support the efforts in the spheres of entrepreneurship and smes development and growth. that is why i support the european microfinance facility as a socio-political instrument that helps people to realise their potential as entrepreneurs, develop new skills through training and monitoring, and find jobs. in bulgaria, micro-loans are helping hundreds of entrepreneurs, especially in the agriculture sector.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the commission's proposal, which meets the requirements of efficiency, accountability and credibility. the establishment of an integrated european border management system is a matter of course which we have put off for too long. today, i would like to ask you two sets of questions. a first series on the actual operation. firstly, do we have a timetable with specific deadlines for each commitment? to set up a truly european border guard corps, the agency needs to have its own staff and equipment and, in addition, the capacity to react quickly in the event of a crisis. so who will train the guards? how long will it take to deploy a team in case of an emergency? if the agency takes the initiative to carry out an operation, will the member states still have to agree to it or not? my second question concerns the powers of frontex. how will coordination be ensured with regard to the risk analyses produced by frontex and the frontex mandate for cooperation? i would like to conclude by stressing that this package must make it possible to really strengthen cooperation with third countries, with neighbouring countries. we are awaiting further information on this. and i congratulate you again: this is the right direction, the right response, namely a common european response.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for a package of measures for the european border and coast guard has its pros and cons. the proposal aims to increase the funding and capacity of frontex and to restructure the agency into the european border and coast guard in question. this is a good idea, because a major problem of the european union is the lack of well-guarded external borders, through which hundreds of thousands of illegal refugees pass. neither the dublin agreement nor the inadequate measures to redistribute immigrants will work as long as new immigrants are constantly coming to the european union. separately, a large proportion of migrants coming to the eu are not registered by the border services of the member states, which let them cross freely and leave the country. this in itself is a protest against the dublin agreement, and the low number of relocated immigrants also shows the reluctance of the member states to implement the arrangements. it is not right to impose by force measures which are incompatible with the interests of the member states. another is that member states will have to give up their sovereign right and duty to defend their borders on their own. the new european border and coast guard should not take away sovereignty from states but should support and complement the capacity of member states' border services.
in writing. europe has taken the first strong step towards greater security. the commission presented its proposals for changes to the protection of the eu's external borders, which will see the creation of a european border and coast guard. it will be able to take effective responsibility, together with the national authorities, for the protection of the union's land and sea borders. the more important proposals are to provide a more serious budget and staff, but also more rights. the mandate of the agency will allow it to carry out its own border operations and a standard by which it can be deployed for less than 3 days in the affected area in the event of a crisis. with 1.5 million illegal immigrants entering the eu in the first 10 months of 2015 alone, these measures were necessary. it is the only way to preserve the unity of the eu and to stop the return of internal borders. without secure external borders, both schengen and free movement within the union are in serious jeopardy. for bulgaria, the proposal is important because it means assessing the state of our borders at any given moment and providing concrete assistance with people and equipment in the event of a crisis. the proposal is one of the solutions to the migration problem. the ep should discuss and adopt it as soon as possible.
in writing. the current migration crisis and the terrorist threat to europe show that the external borders of the european union need to be further strengthened to guarantee the security of our citizens. i welcome the european commission's proposal for a european border guard as a necessary first step in this direction, but it will not solve the problems on its own. the introduction of systematic checks on all european citizens crossing the external schengen and european borders is of paramount importance. to be effective, it requires the linking of document and people information systems so that one check will cover the full spectrum of threats. this also means that member states exchange information in a timely manner and share it through these systems, something that unfortunately has not been done until recently. europe also needs to cooperate with its neighbours. our borders can only be protected when we have good operational cooperation with countries like turkey, so that we can fight together against the dangers that exist. last but not least, the european border guard service must ensure security not only in the schengen area but at all external borders, including the bulgarian one. at the same time, however, this should not be at the expense of national sovereignty.
madam president, all of us – and the commissioner most of all – are very well aware that the whole range of issues connected with labour mobility have taken centre stage among all the other problems facing the european union today. given the acuteness of these problems, this merits not a discussion at 22.40 but a key discussion in this parliament with a full house. we had a discussion of that sort this morning. commissioner, if we are serious about building a balanced european union, you cannot afford to pay less attention to the severe problems of labour mobility than to market competitiveness. you have said that you want a balanced package, but the situation now is highly unbalanced with a severe imbalance to the detriment of workers. if you do not fix that, problems will arise.
in writing. mr president, the free movement and freedom of establishment of european citizens in any eu country is one of the greatest achievements of the european project and a cornerstone of european integration. however, european citizens still face unjustified obstacles to the exercise of these rights, in particular with regard to equal treatment of national workers and those who, by exercising their right, have sought employment in another country. i believe that further measures are needed in this regard. such measures may include, for example, the establishment of a european platform to provide information and support in cases of discrimination in relation to freedom of movement and employment. this is necessary because in many cases workers in another country are particularly vulnerable and do not know the legal options or the competent authorities to which they can turn to protect their labour and social rights in the host country.
blue-card question.– mr lamberts, one of the issues which are continuously being swept under the carpet is the labour mobility package. you have pointed to the danger of avoiding problems that then come up into our face. would you support the proposal for a key debate on the whole range of such issues? it is obvious that, if we are talking about a properly-functioning internal market, if we are talking about avoiding the dire problems of social injustice, we need a very serious and involved debate with the full participation of the president of the commission and all of the responsible officials.
mr president, yes, this council meeting is an opportunity to take stock of a year in which much has been done, but also to look realistically at the work that still needs to be done. our area of freedom, security and justice is being tested on both fronts of migration and terrorism. we must strengthen it and defend it against those who use fear as a political argument for simplistic solutions. the union has reached major milestones in migration in the past year. i am thinking here of the frontex budget, operation sophia, the valletta summit, the western balkans route, the proposal for the new european border and coast guard agency. the implementation of all these different elements according to a precise and public timetable requires constant work. the citizens of europe are still waiting for concrete measures to be taken in the fight against terrorism. it's completely anachronistic to think in terms of national security. what member state today can claim to be the sole guarantor of its security? i don't know. at the same time, european cooperation does not imply the absence of responsibility on the part of each member state. four points to be taken into account immediately: automated cross-checking of the various european and national databases, better use by the member states of the europol file on foreign fighters, more aggressive work in the production of counter-narrative and rapid implementation of the pnr. finally, four aspects must be kept in mind in our cooperation with third countries: no blank cheques, increased support for lebanon and jordan, extreme vigilance for what is happening in the sahel and north africa and a little more concrete action in the fight against the smuggling of migrants. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think we must distinguish between the two logics: on the one hand, the intergovernmental logic, with the declarations made by the council, which are the responsibility of the member states, and on the other hand, the community logic of the message we are sending here to the european parliament, the pro-european message, the need to have a common response, to defend our values. i think that, in the light of criticisms such as those we have just heard, the limits of the intergovernmental approach should be clearly defined if we are to continue to move forward in a constructive and more concrete way.
mr president, it is important to ask ourselves today: have we succeeded in creating a holistic european policy to deal with the migration crisis in 2015? eight council meetings were required to adopt the 'urgent measures' proposed by the commission and approved by parliament. the crisis today would not have been so deep if these measures had been applied in time. in fact, 2015 was only the preparatory year for the holistic migration policy. from now on, we must act. the commission's proposal to strengthen border controls has been long awaited. the protection of the schengen area is a top priority, as the president of the european commission told us this morning. but why, mr timmermans, are bulgaria, romania and croatia excluded from the new agency when their borders are also the external borders of the union? they are thus transformed into a 'buffer zone' which will have to take on all the migrants who cannot enter the schengen states, but who cannot return from where they come either. applying the principle of 'double standards' risks once again leading to an even greater migration crisis in the balkans, with consequences for the whole of europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs fontana on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina, which i believe will be useful for the security of european citizens. the terms of cooperation shall include the exchange of strategic information, information on criminal investigations, the exchange of personal data, and methods for preventing crime. in today's situation, where the security and integrity of the eu are threatened, we must use all possible instruments of cooperation with neighbouring countries to strengthen the fight against cross-border and organised crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the conclusion of an agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol is key to deepening cooperation between the country and the european union. i consider that the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation has added value as it aims at enhancing cooperation between the eu and third countries to prevent and combat serious transnational crime through the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, including personal data and classified information. it will allow for effective counter-terrorism measures to be taken by regulating the relations of the european police office with a strategic partner in the western balkans such as bosnia and herzegovina. in conclusion, i welcome this agreement because it highlights the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in some areas in terms of its integration into european values.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the draft council decision approving the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, as i believe that the only way to effectively prevent and combat organised crime is through the sharing of available information. the events of recent months have clearly demonstrated that cooperation between services and the exchange of operational and strategic information are of crucial importance for the timely response to transnational criminal networks. i therefore believe that the sharing of information between europol and the candidate countries neighbouring the eu should be supported in the name of our common objective of building an area of justice, freedom and security.
in writing. ‒ in this case, half a million euro from the european globalisation adjustment fund is being used to reintegrate 600 workers into the labour market in ireland. the european union must support growth and job creation, but proactively, investment is not matching results. so i'm voting against this fund in principle, as i did now.
in writing. ‒ the application covers 108 people who lost their jobs. the commission's contribution is expected to be eur 442 000. according to the legislation related to the european globalisation adjustment fund (article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation), the number of redundancies must be at least 500 and the reasons for this must be directly linked to the economic and financial crisis and globalisation. we see that these are people of working age (80% of them between 30 and 54 years old), who are highly qualified and live near dublin - the largest economic and industrial hub. europe is once again showing solidarity and support for business. thank you for supporting this app. however, i urge that the conditions be met so that the aid is valued, needed and timely.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the draft resolution on invasive alien species is a sensible proposal that should be supported. that's why i supported her project. the arguments presented have their iron and, dare i say, irrefutable logic. of course, we must protect biodiversity, adopt a set of measures that do not allow invasive alien species to disrupt the balance of ecosystems. in addition, extremely strict control is required both in the implementation of the measures and in relation to new challenges. the protection of the environment and of biological diversity cannot be underestimated or derogated from by economic, political or any other interests. on the contrary, this should be the absolute priority of every member of parliament. i would stress that the commission should make more of an effort in this direction and not get away with half-assed proposals. europe's nature and biodiversity must be preserved for future generations, and the spread of invasive alien species must be strictly controlled and specific measures taken to maintain the balance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe it is my political conviction and i have made a commitment to my constituents that european countries should not allow food and feed containing gmos to enter their markets. i understand that the i.t.c., including monsanto, is putting a lot of pressure on us to open our doors wide to gmo products. but we must not succumb to the yoke of this pressure, because there are no guarantees about the effects of these gm foods and feed on the environment, human health and lives. the latest research and studies in this area clearly prove this. i understand that the admission procedure itself, which is carried out by the commission, suffers from a number of weaknesses. we can't play god with people's lives and health. we can't open pandora's box for the sake of someone's economic interests. i therefore supported the resolution calling for the suspension of the implementation of an admission decision already taken and for the suspension of all admission procedures pending a change of procedure.
in writing. - the idea of this document is good, but the implementation does not allow me to support it. the fight against tax evasion in the eu must be led, on the one hand, by all member states, and on the other hand, it must be coordinated, because if it doesn't, we will see what we are seeing now. multinational companies will shift their accounting profits from high-interest countries to lower-interest countries, which will be a drain on the local budget on the one hand and the community budget on the other. it could get even more nasty if we step up our measures against base-shrinking and profit shifting. not all of these revenues are transferred to offshore zones and/or non-eu countries. we have a lot of work to do to combat these abuses.
in writing. – the extent of the cost of aggressive tax planning in the eu is estimated of annual revenue losses ranging from eur 50-70 to eur 160-190 billion. fighting tax evasion and tax fraud, and the related opacity and secrecy, requires actions at eu and international level. tackling aggressive tax planning is a major aim of cooperation at eu level, in particular in corporate taxation, where the objective is to reduce the number of loopholes stemming from the complex array of rules, assessment bases and rates which may apply to a single firm. i support the report that urges for bringing transparency, coordination and convergence to corporate tax policies in the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms belder on eu-china relations because i found it to be extremely good and comprehensive. the report focuses on five areas: the eu-china strategic partnership and cooperation, the country's internal affairs, its foreign policy, the human rights situation, and relations with taiwan and tibet. the report's recommendations are of particular importance, the most important of which is that reform of the human rights system should not be neglected at the expense of the country's economic growth. economic reforms and those in the field of democracy and human rights go hand in hand with the aim of improving the overall prosperity and quality of life in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because the eu-china strategic partnership is essential to finding common responses to a range of global challenges and to identifying common interests such as global and regional security. the country is a major international power and one of the eu's most important partners. in 2015, we mark the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, but global challenges require us to seek to deepen our relations in the long term. china is a major trading partner for the eu and the conclusion of an investment agreement could have a strong impact on our economies. of course, the eu must build its partnerships on the democratic principles and high standards it stands for. it is necessary, above all, to seek constructive dialogue with the authorities to improve the human rights situation in the country, as well as to address the deterioration of the environment.
in writing. – as a member of the european parliament’s delegation for relations with china, i am following closely the relationship between the european union and china. the eu is china’s largest trade partner and china is the eu’s second largest partner. the chinese economy has been growing vigorously in the last twenty years and eu member states should take greater advantage of the opportunities offered by this economic development. that is why i am fully supporting the report on eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ the report presented by my colleague, enrique guerrero salom, is substantial in scope and attempts to provide guidance in addressing a difficult issue - that of humanitarian action as a response to human suffering caused by natural events and human activity. it is worth noting here that the eu is one of the largest donors of humanitarian aid in the world, with a number of european countries (member states) also providing substantial humanitarian aid outside of the union's instruments. in this connection, i would like to stress that we are fulfilling our public duty as states, but we cannot solve the world's humanitarian crises alone. moreover, here in europe, right on our borders, there are humanitarian crises. in countries like mine, in bulgaria, there are people who need humanitarian aid to survive. yes, it sounds far-fetched, far-fetched to some, but it's true.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit because it is the first one, initiated by the un secretary-general, and because the european union and its member states, as the main funder, must prepare and ensure a major influence on the conclusions of this summit. i welcome the request that a five-year road map for the development and implementation of the concrete political commitments that have been agreed be included in the outcome document of the world humanitarian summit. i also welcome the emphasis on coordination between eu and international policies and instruments, on the one hand, and on the close link between humanitarian and development, and international justice, on the other. however, i regret that the report does not propose a more in-depth reflection on the application of international humanitarian law in the context of humanitarian crises such as those linked to terrorist groups, and a reflection on an appropriate status for displaced persons as a result of the effects of climate change.
in writing. – i supported the resolution because for one reason or another, there are ongoing humanitarian crises all over the world. in this context, the upcoming world humanitarian summit is our opportunity to change not only the life of affected people but also to bring back humanity and human rights to the top of our agenda. seen in this light the eu, as the biggest aid donor in the world and human rights champion, must take the leading role in upcoming meeting. perhaps what is more important is the fact that as a leading power at the summit the eu must offer to the summit participants new innovative measures, policies and instruments to tackle ongoing humanitarian crises. leadership is not an easy thing therefore we must prepare for it if we would like to continue to be world’s leading humanitarian power.
in writing. ‒ as one of the major sectors, the steel sector is important to the european economy not only as a high value-added sector but also as a sector that employs a large number of european citizens. for this reason, and because of the problems in this area caused by the economic crisis, the reduced demand caused by many different reasons, and the reduced consumption and the increase in china's own production, we are obliged to protect the european economy and therefore the people employed in this business. however, i voted against this document because i believe that the change and liberalization of the quota system will not help the development of this sector, but will only turn these quotas into a bargaining chip and a kind of security. the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are of paramount importance for the community, but also for the rest of the world. for this reason, and because a number of other countries have access to much cheaper energy resources, i.e. cheaper end-products, we need to focus this industry on the use of energy-efficient and innovative production processes. unfortunately, this report seems to me to be lobbying, and for that reason i do not support it.
in writing. – a key goal of the europe 2020 strategy has been to increase the contribution made by manufacturing to european gdp from 16% to 20% by 2020. the reindustrialisation of the european economy, if it is to be a globally competitive reality, faces many challenges. the eu base metals industry plays an important role for the reindustrialisation of europe. the eu needs to help build an efficient frame for the industry of base materials in order to re-establish their economic potential. moreover, base metals have one of the largest shares of bulgaria’s overall exports. that is why i am supporting the report and i vote in favour.
in writing. - mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, today we voted on the resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, in which the steel sector is both the largest producer of base metals and the one most exposed to the risks of losing competitiveness and relocating production to third countries. the aim of the resolution was to protect this industry with the tools that are permitted and enforceable in the eu, to enable a smooth transition without disruption to a sustainable, environmentally friendly and cost-effective industry, with a product that is competitive on the world market and with technological innovation that is in line with the goals and challenges of the 21st century. i am disappointed that parliament has not given adequate support to the use of the border correction mechanism, which could as a temporary and targeted measure protect the industry from external competitors that do not respect the eu's high environmental standards. the paris agreement on climate change does not automatically mean that all the world's metal producers will operate on the same environmental standards from tomorrow. on the contrary, it remains to be seen how serious the commitments of the parties are and how long it will take to ratify the agreement. we should therefore support all protection mechanisms where they do not conflict with our own legislation and wto rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the 'situation in hungary' because once again the european parliament is being used as a stage for criticism of viktor orbán's government by socialists and those who do not support his policies. this resolution is a direct interference in hungary's internal affairs and a criticism of the legislation adopted by the orbán administration. on 10 june we asked the commission to monitor the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, in particular as a result of the new legislation. all member states must respect the commitments they have made and protect fundamental rights. on the other hand, all politicians have a right to an opinion. but the european parliament should not interfere in the very monitoring procedure undertaken by the european commission, as this does not fall within its competence. according to article 17 teu, only the european commission has the competence to conduct such an investigation and only it has the right to determine whether european law and treaties have been infringed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the european union is founded on the values of respect for freedom, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights and we should not turn a blind eye but oppose the abandonment of our principles, especially when it is within the union. the recent initiatives and interventions by the hungarian government have led to a systematic deterioration of the rule of law. at a time when record numbers of people are fleeing their homes because of war and oppression, it is unacceptable for hungary, which is a full member of the eu and international organisations, to want to isolate itself and refuse to deal with asylum applications. the country is obliged to comply with european and international laws such as the geneva convention. these acts by the hungarian government in recent months should serve as a red light that freedom and democracy are being fought for every day. i therefore consider it necessary for the council of the european union and the european council to discuss and adopt conclusions on the situation in hungary.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr preda on his excellent work. i would then like to emphasize six elements which i consider essential. firstly, i would stress the need for coherence between our various external policies and between our internal and external policies. we must avoid double standards and this consistency can only be reinforced by full membership of the member states in the action plan and the strategic framework of the union. my second point concerns the unity and visibility of the union's action, facilitated by the work of the union's special representative for human rights. this mandate must become permanent to complete the process. the third element is the role of election observation missions. again, monitoring of these missions is paramount. and i think this is the case even when the conclusions of the mission are positive, because it also constitutes political support for those who are determined to advance democracy in their own countries. the union delegations can play an even more active role in this monitoring. fourthly, the role of parliamentary cooperation through delegations and joint assemblies, which provide considerable support to countries in democratic transition. the fifth element concerns human rights, democracy and development. i would like to stress the need to define a limited number of priorities per country, which could be a strategic and pragmatic approach to better achieve and quantify our results. finally, the treatment and situation of migrants and refugees, including in europe, are rightly integrated into the report. we must not forget that in addition to terrorists and armed groups, migrant smugglers and criminal networks of human trafficking are deliberately violating human rights. illicit trafficking in migrants is a crime and a violation of human rights. we must do more to dismantle these networks, and we must do it in a spirit of good cooperation.
a question asked by raising a blue card. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i think these accusations are absolutely slanderous and untrue, and secondly, i think that people who come from afghanistan are somehow not refugees from syria just because they're from afghanistan. and now let me ask you, when was the last time you were at the bulgarian-turkish border and when was the last time you saw with your own eyes the situation facing our border police services, who, by the way, are guarding the external border of the european union from what is happening in many places in europe, for example in paris?
mr president, bulgaria was quoted. bulgaria has a great responsibility as an external border of the european union to ensure the security of the union. the country works closely with european agencies and international institutions and takes measures in accordance with international and european legislation. in this context, i would like to highlight four factors: first, we should use a common methodology for the preparation of monitoring reports assessing national systems for the reception of persons seeking protection. it is definitely missing from the reports cited. the people who are making allegations of wrongdoing should stand up and be counted. second, the unhcr and the bulgarian helsinki committee monitor the principle of non-refoulement on a daily basis. it was decided to carry out unannounced inspections from february 2015. so far, there have been no reports of physical abuse or humiliation. the presence of a fronttex officer during all procedures with detained third-country nationals shall guarantee compliance with the principle of non-refoulement. it's only right that we also show our respect for our own agencies in one such as frontex. moreover, law enforcement officers receive special training on asylum issues. they conduct daily briefings, are subject to constant monitoring for compliance with the instructions. it's time to take into account the difficult conditions in which they work. third, the formal procedure in the event of an allegation of non-compliance with european legislation by a member state requires that an official document be drawn up requesting an explanation to the relevant national authorities. only then, with full information from the parties concerned, can we be objective. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the key role of nafta in the european parliament is crucial. the libe commission shall send delegations which shall clearly state the conditions of admission. but it is very important for us to keep in mind that the countries that are making the effort should be encouraged and, above all, that this problem should be treated as part of our overall migration management strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a number of its reports and assessments, the european commission has stated that bulgaria is successfully guarding europe's external borders. the area along the bulgarian border with turkey, which has been under severe migratory pressure for several years, is characterised by a largely cross-country and difficult-to-access terrain. bulgarian border guards successfully work in difficult conditions and ensure european security every day by breaking up networks of human traffickers, apprehending persons suspected of criminal or terrorist activity and rescuing migrants in trouble at the border. despite the constant efforts of the bulgarian border police, my country is again being wrongfully accused by foreign ngos of mistreating asylum seekers. i would like to emphasise that a number of checks have been carried out on the compliance with european legislation and the work of the border police none of them prove these allegations. the authorisation of illegal crossing of the state border through the places not designated for this purpose creates preconditions for the entry into the territory of the republic of bulgaria and the european union of accomplices and members of islamic terrorist organizations. in view of this, bulgaria is taking and will continue to take the strictest measures permitted by national and international law to ensure a high level of border security and to control the flow of illegal migrants and asylum seekers. so i would like to urge all those who criticize the countries on the european union's external border, which are feeling the pressure of the migrant wave, before you point a finger at us, get acquainted with the conditions under which our staff are trying to cope with the situation and stop interviewing only asylum seekers. talk to those who are facing thousands of migrants every day and then, based on the opinions of both sides, write reports!
mr. chairman, in 2015 we wrote many documents, we talked about many strategies on how to deal with the refugee crisis, but we forgot the most important thing: the human face of this crisis, the many conflicts, the many wars and the human tragedy, the loss of human rights. and that's why we're having this debate in this room today. but none of this would have happened if the measures we proposed earlier this year had been implemented. so the member states felt a little bit alone, they started to build borders, and on the borders themselves, on the walls themselves, there was a huge tension. dublin's been out of business for a long time. the temporary mechanism for distributing refugees has been suspended. the hot spots have barely started and the results are more than meager. the criteria for their distribution in the member states are not clear. today, a new methodology has been announced for the 80,000 syrian refugees who are expected to arrive annually from turkey to european countries. at the same time, the majority of immigrants do not want to stay in the countries on the european union's external border. they're heading for northern and western europe. the lack of urgent measures and a clear perspective is increasing the fears of both refugees and european citizens. and now i'll say something about those who have repeatedly mentioned the name of my country bulgaria. the wrong message in this room today is to point the finger at one country or another. we all face the same challenges, and we all have to deal with them together. it is not violence when you have to identify and when you have to take fingerprints, because these are european rules and laws and all of you in this room voted for them. and so when a country like bulgaria does it, it's not a violation of the rules and it's not a violation of human rights and freedoms. i have to add one more thing. monitoring reports are produced every year to monitor how countries are dealing with the refugee crisis. so far, there has been no comment on my country. and so when we make these baseless accusations, when we call certain european citizens xenophobic, we only fuel more xenophobia and populism in europe.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the basis of this other pointless debate on the subject was a few, or are a few reports that are full of false statements, with slanderous conclusions in them. i categorically reject them and say they are not true. because such things can be written by people who are either ill-intentioned or have never seen this european border and do not know where the border between bulgaria and turkey is. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this border is not only our own but also the external border of the european union, and we have the duty and the right to protect it so that we can guarantee our citizens the necessary security and the certainty that they will live a normal life and will not be threatened by terrorist attacks or other attacks. but there's something else that's striking me about this debate. apparently, more and more colleagues don't understand what's going on and keep saying the same things that have nothing to do with real life. anyone who calls fingerprinting violence has clearly not understood that it is actually a european document that is signed. and once again, i'm going to address all of those who fall into some strange split personality. those who meet with bears will send with candles. it should be clear. and those who want to deal with so-called illegal immigrants, be so kind there are planes, there are airports in turkey to transport them directly. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for asking. as you can see, unlike the rest of our colleagues who throw out unsubstantiated accusations, we don't mind answering. yes, i think these ngos have a specific benefit, they work for specific interests and they're a little embarrassed and afraid to say who's to blame for this. they're afraid to say the name of german chancellor merkel and ask her how she's going to take responsibility for what she's done to europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, the report on arms exports that has been presented to you seems to me to be extremely hypocritical. i agree that under no circumstances should countries and organisations armed with armed conflict be armed. but the point of this report is not that at all. it is a mixed-up, arbitrary, and unconnected system of legal and illegal arms exports and trade. the control mechanism itself is a good wish and nothing more. i call this report largely hypocritical because the big member states have not stopped and continue to produce and sell weapons to third countries, including in risky war zones. in return, countries like my homeland bulgaria were pressured, our military-defense and industrial complex was destroyed. the big member states are taking over our markets, and now, in this report, they're talking about rules, morality and peace in relation to arms exports. there's a double standard here. i'm not taking it. i also reject the idea that european countries should impose restrictions on themselves and that our competitors in the sector should occupy an empty niche because of our own shortsightedness. it will cost us dearly economically, socially and defensively. i do not support this report because it is a symbol of double standards and poorly targeted objectives.
mr. president, i would like to mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the european patent office nearly seven months ago has given rise to today's debate. this decision set a precedent. it affects many farmers and the whole european union. for them, it is contrary to existing international conventions and european norms. smes in the sector feel threatened by international giants and feel that their competitiveness is being undermined. it is essential to take a balanced approach in this case. we must be able to encourage the development of innovation on the one hand, but on the other hand we must distinguish between situations where biological characteristics are obtained for the purpose of research and development. and when these derived biological characteristics are used for personal purposes and commercialized. when we talk about this commercialization, i think we fall into a different category than the development of scientific research. it is important to be able to distinguish between these situations and to be able to strike a balance, because the wider the exceptions, the smaller the scope of the rules.
in writing.– the arbitrary detention of irish citizen ibrahim halawa represents a violation of human rights, international and egyptian law. it is totally unacceptable for people to be detained, tortured and treated in an inhuman manner just because they have exercised their core human rights of freedom of expression and assembly. what is more, ibrahim halawa is potentially facing the death penalty for both his ‘crimes’ (freedom of expression and peaceful assembly). the eu is the leading institutional actor and largest donor to the fight against the death penalty and is committed to abolition of the death penalty worldwide. having regard to that, we should condemn not only the application of the death penalty in egypt but also we should call on the country’s authorities for the immediate release of the european citizen ibrahim halawa who has faced unfair trial. last but not least, the eu should engage in a constructive dialogue with the egyptian authorities in order to change its low level human rights record. as our common european history teaches us, better human rights record equals development, peace and prosperity. these are things that our partner egypt needs right now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, because that is the order of business since the eu-soviet republic of vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement of 2010.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, as i consider this to be a way of conducting the union's foreign policy responsibly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation. this is because of the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement, which was also concluded in 2010.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this motion for a resolution because i do not agree with the main message that the european commission's proposals for a package to strengthen economic and monetary union leave insufficient room for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level. it is not a question of democratic control, as proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but of who should oversee national budgets. there are already more than enough mechanisms to ensure democratic control. furthermore, i also do not support the proposal to make the european fiscal board responsible for the political authority of the ep. this board has a purely advisory function and has no wider mandate than that. transferring this prerogative sovereignty to a european level would not only politicise the issue, but would also be wrong and illegal.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the report by mr preda annual report 2014 on human rights and democracy in the world and eu policy in this area, as the report's focus shifts from basic human rights to secondary rights such as the right to abortion, the rights of lgbti people (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex/intersex). what would people who have been in prison for years and have not been given a fair trial, which is a basic human right, think that in the european parliament's annual report on human rights we discuss social rights, the right of financial transactions and labour rights. of course, these rights are also extremely important, but they are still secondary under international law, and the right to abortion and the rights of lgbt people are even third generation rights that divert our attention from the extremely serious cases of persecution, forcible detention, mistreatment, torture, unfair trials and all the other similar gross violations of basic human rights.
in writing. – as we can see from the 2014 human rights and democracy report the world is going backwards. the dark memories of times when human rights were constantly abused are reflected in today’s world news. in this inhuman and intolerant international environment the eu should step up as a champion of human rights. we should seek a better human rights record from our trading partners, political allies and prospective members. most importantly we should not stop our continuing effort to improve the human rights record within our borders, in particular in our member states. because if we manage to fully deal with lack of freedom of expression, racism, exploitation and gender crimes within our borders then there is no reason why we cannot do so outside of them. i hope that the 2016 human rights and democracy report will show a better human rights record worldwide; if not, then we should bear in mind that we have failed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. this agreement ended the bloody war between bosniaks, croats and serbs 20 years ago. unfortunately, 20 years later, bosnia and herzegovina is still a very divided country between the different federations. some even call it a failed state. instead of moving forward towards a well-functioning federal government, bosniaks, serbs and croats are in constant conflict with each other and in a struggle for influence and competence of their national components. all this is holding back democratic reforms at the national level, as well as the overall development of the country and its aspiration to integration with the european union. the dayton peace accords ended one war, but the problems and divisions between the warring nations remain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the dayton peace agreement, signed in 1995 in paris, ended the bloodiest war in europe since the second world war and paved the way for democracy in bosnia and herzegovina. however, 20 years later, the complex state structure of bosnia and herzegovina brings to the fore complex and unresolved conflicts in europe's most unstable area. the lack of confidence in the institutions and the gradual weakening of the international presence are moving the country further away from the euro-atlantic path, and this has a destabilising effect. that's why today, the country needs our support more than ever. the european union has proved that it can serve as an example of multicultural and ethnic coexistence and we can provide a new impetus for reform. we need to help the country solve its historical overlay problems. the young people in this country need to recapture the european dream and build a european mentality of values, not turn the region into a grey area of europe.
in writing. ‒ there is a deep misconception in the eu institutions that when we adopt certain policies, the rest of the world will also adopt and abide by them. this is where the report in question comes in. it proposes measures that europe should follow, without taking into account that the rest of the world will not. as regards arms exports, we cannot continue to impose restrictive policies on our own countries and companies indefinitely until third countries meet our criteria and effectively displace us from the markets. and not only that, we create complications that benefit third parties who openly break the rules. so the more restrictions we put on the gun industry, the more we favor those who break the rules. therefore, i cannot accept such a report.
in writing. – due to endless conflicts, the worldwide arms trade is on the rise. the arms industry is a major industry for many eu member states. however, what is disturbing is the basic fact that arms indeed are fuelling conflicts and causing sufferings and human rights violations. in this sense, the eu should take steps to limit the trade, or at least to force member states to provide real data and information about their arms trade. if we possess good information about development of the arms market and trade then we can avoid not only human rights violations but also mass killing, ethnic cleansing and terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ i voted with 'disgust' on the resolution on patents and plant breeders' rights, as i believe it is important to take a balanced approach to the case with the precedent set by the epo. we need to be able to encourage development and innovation, but we also need to distinguish between situations where biological traits are obtained for research and development, used for personal purposes or commercialized. when we talk about commercialization of the resulting characteristics, i think we fall into a very different category of research development. it is important to be able to distinguish between these situations and to be able to strike a balance, because the wider the exceptions, the smaller the scope of the rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported another resolution on the situation in burundi, which is deteriorating alarmingly with each passing month. just a few weeks ago, the armed forces once again trampled on the rights of the population, at least 240 people have been killed since the current president, nkurunziza, decided to extend his term, and over 200,000 have fled the country. it is essential to re-establish the democratic process and dialogue between political parties and to put an end to the persecution, killings and impunity of the military. also of concern is the case of richard spyros hagabimana, a police officer in burundi of greek origin, who was imprisoned and tortured because as a police officer he refused to fire on the crowd. the european external action service should do its utmost to protect his rights and to arrange his release.
in writing. - i'm reading with amazement what's happening in virunga national park. i can't explain how european countries offer money to rebels, you know, terrorists, so they can get easier access to the oil fields in this park. we recently witnessed the un climate conference in paris, where for the first time, an agreement was reached to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. and at the same time, two oil companies are helping to make a national park disappear. i can't let that happen. that is why i support this motion for a resolution and i sincerely hope that it will not remain on paper but that real action will be taken and that these barbaric acts in virunga will cease. we have nothing stronger than nature and i hope she doesn't take revenge one day.
