madam president, on 6 january 2015, turkey, in continuing its illegal actions, issued a new directive
madam prime minister, energy is the main pillar of the 'juncker investment package', as it has been called. at the same time, energy and the energy union are a strategic objective for the whole of europe. you have mentioned that because of the geographical position of your country, you will naturally turn east. however, in the eastern mediterranean, on the southern side of europe, we have important developments. one of our member states, the republic of cyprus, whose one third of its european territory is occupied by turkey, is trying to extract and exploit natural gas and energy for the strategic interests of the european union itself. in a very strong resolution we have recognized its sovereign rights and at the same time condemned turkey's actions. but we also have new illegal activities. i'm asking you to tell us what you're going to do about it.
madam president, we cannot enter into this debate without looking at what has happened in france. the eye of the abyss opening over europe has its roots in the western policies in iraq, syria and libya. the people who raised this monster now want to fight it. those who were arming the extremists and who were essentially feeding the islamic state now have to fight on ruins. this does not mean that there is any justification or explanation for the cowardly murder of journalists. but what is our goal? we have to make sure that the european parliament is not left behind. should we continue the same policy that brought libya to the brink of destruction? who is consenting to her actions or omissions in the chaos engulfing the middle east? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat poverty, which have been very successful. reality is cruel. the european union's foreign policy is not dictated by the logic of the european union - to say the least - but by interests, militarism and interventionism. europe must be a bridge of peace and cooperation between peoples, a force of solidarity and principles. but this objective is in exactly the opposite direction from that which the european union is pursuing today.
mr president, of course there is a huge democratic deficit in egypt, a country which plays a leading role in the mediterranean and the arab world and is a partner of the european union. today egypt is fighting alongside the west against terrorism and can be a stabilizing factor in the region alongside cyprus, israel and greece. it is an important partner in security and development issues. especially at a time when the european union's political investments in erdogan's dictatorial turkey are collapsing. the countries of the eastern mediterranean can together be a source of energy for the european union. the european union's close cooperation with egypt is therefore undermining the plans of the fanatical islamists, especially by strengthening democratic institutions and religious freedoms, as our report suggests. the european union is a democratic institution, and it is not a democratic institution. but egypt needs the support and strengthening of the european union to develop its democracy and make it better. stability in the country will contribute to improving democracy, strengthening human rights, fighting terrorism, stability in the region.
in writing. the resolution expresses universal disgust at the horrible crime committed by the taliban in peshawar. pakistan's children, boys and girls, have the right to education in a safe environment and the pakistani government has an obligation to guarantee this right. the resolution does not, however, mention the destabilising role played by us drone strikes, which indiscriminately kill and thus provoke the popular anger that extremists are investing in. nor is there any question of the responsibility of the united states and the pakistani regime, which in other times have supported the taliban in various ways, to the detriment of the people of afghanistan and the ussr. the european union must be able to take action against terrorism, and we must be able to take action against terrorism. the aim must be to eliminate the causes that drive people to religious extremism, namely the despair caused by poverty, illiteracy, authoritarianism and corruption of power, and resentment of foreign interference. we do not agree, in the name of fighting terrorism, to the violation of human rights or the reintroduction of the death penalty as prime minister sharif has decided. the people's struggle for national independence, social welfare, democratic freedoms and gender equality is what will also eliminate terrorist religious extremism.
in writing. the resolution attempts to exaggerate and reverse the truth about the ongoing drama of the ukrainian people. the truth is that in february 2014 a coup was carried out in the country, in which far-right and neo-nazi elements were actively involved. the ukrainian regime subsequently launched a brutal crackdown on popular resistance to the coup, and to this day the ukrainian military continues to kill its own people in eastern ukraine. the recent elections were held in a context of violence and terrorization of any opposing voice, especially the communist and all those who disagree with the nationalist, neoliberal and pro-western agenda of the current regime. the aggression of nato in eastern europe and the policy of eu sanctions against russia are undermining the peace and security of our continent and at the same time are sacrificing our peoples. we demand: withdrawal of ukrainian troops from donbass, cancellation of nato military projects in eastern europe, end of sanctions against russia, disarmament of paramilitary far-right groups in ukraine, lifting of the criminalization of the communist party of ukraine, suspension of the eu-ukraine association agreement and end of the anti-people policies of the eu-imf-poroshenko government (sweeping privatizations, austerity, abolition of labor rights) which are further degrading the ukrainian people.
mr president, at the next conference in paris it is most urgent that we reach an agreement which achieves all that we have not achieved so far. the european union must persist in its efforts to set new targets for the effective fight against climate change. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. to achieve this objective it is very important to promote new measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then will developing countries be able to adapt to the new climate changes. it is equally important that the european union takes more initiatives to develop renewable energy sources and tackle energy ...... (the president interrupts)
mr president, for forty years turkey has occupied a member state of the european union, it has occupied european territory, with tragic consequences, such as the 200,000 greek cypriot refugees, who are the only european citizens who are refugees. but there are even more tragic aspects of this tragedy, such as the missing. unfortunately, turkey, on this very humanitarian issue, instead of showing sensitivity, shows the same inhuman face. he is stubbornly refusing to open the turkish military files so that the fate of these missing persons can be investigated. at the same time, it has designated certain areas as so-called 'military zones' to prevent the search for missing persons. at the same time, in 1974, they executed in cold blood 70 civilians from the community of assia, who were taken elsewhere and do not report their whereabouts today. we call on the european union to take action against this country which is seeking membership for a member of the european union such as cyprus. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on this matter.
mr president, the ilo committee on freedom of assembly has declared the right to strike to be a human right. this human right is always translated, according to the committee, as the right to join trade unions at the workplace, to defend the professional interests of workers through collective bargaining. unfortunately, the neoliberal memorandum policies of harsh austerity imposed on the member states through the troika in the european union are proven to disrupt labour relations and infringe on workers' rights. according to eurofound, more and more european governments are unilaterally dissolving collective agreements. the european union must change course from these neo-liberal policies of austerity and memoranda. the european commission must press member states to promote policies that safeguard collective bargaining, labour rights and the right to strike. we, as the united left, declare our solidarity with the workers' struggle to defend the inalienable right to strike.
mr president, i would first of all like to express our deep appreciation for the work of unrwa and its people. as of 27 january, unrwa has been unable to provide aid for repairs and housing in gaza due to the non-input of the amounts promised by the participants in the cairo donors' conference. the commission has not yet received substantial amounts of the $5.4 million committed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the european union must honour its commitments and contribute the sums promised without delay, commissioner. the gue/ngl welcomes today's debate, the subject of which we have highlighted. six months after israel's relentless bombardment with thousands dead and wounded and 96,000 homes in ruins, humanity must not forget gaza. we demand the lifting of the blockade of gaza, the end of the settlement and occupation and the recognition of the palestinian state.
mr president, with regard to the economic crisis, monetary stability and economic development of the states, we must certainly expect the greek question to be discussed today in the extraordinary eurogroup and tomorrow in the council. however, we must all remember that the greek people have always assumed their responsibilities and will do so now, and the european union must assume its own responsibilities on the basis of solidarity in order to find a compromise that will be beneficial for all. the european union is not in the spirit of recession and progress when it comes to frontal clashes. greece must remain in the eurozone, and with the support of its partners and reforms, it will find the path to growth and prosperity. i am of the opinion that the european south and the greek people cannot be strangled any longer, nor can a democratically elected government be demonized and cursed before it has even taken office. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament.
the european council cannot ignore the developments in greece. it must discuss the problems of the greek people and respect their verdict against the memorandum and in favour of a social development policy. and mr weber cannot continue to question, in an undemocratic and unacceptable manner, the results of the elections and the fact that the greek people elected the tsipras government by their vote. finally, respect the democracy, mr weber! the continued undermining of the greek people's efforts to rid themselves of the stain of austerity and unsustainable debt must stop. so is blackmail. the reasonable and just demands of the tsipras government must finally be accepted. the struggles of the greek people are our common concern. if the country's effort succeeds, the benefit will be for all the suffering peoples of europe, who are suffering from the memorandum policies of austerity, unemployment and impoverishment.
in writing. we stress that our positive vote on the ayala sender report concerns compliance with the rules of the common agricultural policy and the exchange of information between member states. we have, however, strong reservations about the collection of data and information by the commission, because it is not clear in the document exactly what information will be forwarded by the member states, with the risk that this will infringe personal data.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. however, we continue to have strong reservations about the commission's collection of data and information. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
mr president, the us senate report confirms the heinous practices perpetrated by the cia and the united states in the context of their counter-terrorism and hysteria. probably, i think the planet will be shocked even more when the united states releases the other 5,500 pages that have been kept in the dark. of course, moral apathy does not lie in the ineffectiveness of torture, as the us senate approaches. torture, kidnapping, detention without charge are condemnable not because they are ineffective, but because they are everywhere and always illegal, inhuman and immoral. that's why the obama administration is legally and morally exposed by deciding not to prosecute the torturers and the moral perpetrators of torture, including the political leadership. the european union must investigate thoroughly the involvement of each member state and assign responsibilities and guarantee that this will not happen again. the european union must also send a strong message to the united states to accept the obvious.
in writing. the report confirms what we knew about the cia's activities and the implications of the "war on terror" that it had and still has. in addition, it makes clear that the abductions and torture were carried out with the knowledge of the us government, which authorised them. however, the moral worthlessness of the cia program does not lie in the "ineffectiveness" of torture, as the senate intelligence committee approaches. we condemn the cia's torture and memoranda because they were illegal, inhumane and immoral. we also consider the obama administration's decision not to prosecute the torturers and moral perpetrators of torture, including the political leadership and the authors of the memoranda, to be legally and morally unacceptable. investigating and condemning torture is an obligation of all states, as provided for in article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights, article 7 of the international covenant on civil and political rights and article 7 of the un convention against torture. our position is that the us should be called upon to criminalize torture in the way that the un convention against torture defines it. the united states is also required to sign and ratify the relevant un conventions and protocols.
in writing. personal data security issues, filtering of information by large and private companies/search engines, and the ability of the citizen to have free access to the internet are perhaps the most essential prerequisites for the development of the internet governance model proposed by the forum. the report contains a number of areas for improvement. currently, internet use is concentrated in the advanced economies of the western world, while participation/use in developing countries is very limited. this fact has not yet been taken seriously by the forum. the forum focuses instead on the outsourcing of important social goods and services to private initiatives to develop entrepreneurship. however, we should not condemn the effort being made. on the contrary, our aim should be to further involve and expand the forum so that we can highlight these shortcomings and minimise them to the greatest extent possible, thus ensuring the right of equal access of all citizens (especially those on the margins, economically, socially, culturally) and protecting them from the logic/obsession of commercialisation. in this context, we have decided to vote in favour of the proposal to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum.
mr president, i think there is no one in this room who really knows what we have to do for the people of syria and iraq. that is why we are engaged in describing the suffering of these people. so there is no question that the humanitarian aid to the people of syria and iraq must be increased without delay and that we must provide real help to the people. it is our duty as the european union and the member states to take this matter seriously, to ensure that they have at least the basic necessities of life. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is the united states and the european union that are responsible for this: they are the ones who, in 2003, in the name of the so-called fight against terrorism, started a war that continues to this day and has completely destabilized the entire middle east region. those who by their actions and omissions fostered what we now call the islamic state. and we are forced today to discuss the fundamentals of human existence. the european union must show a new direction in this area.
i'm the editor. - mr president, for some years now, dozens of greek and turkish cypriot scientists, as well as ordinary citizens, have been working to find the bones of the victims of the cyprus tragedy, and i think this is an act that highlights the human race: working, that is, to find the figures of history and trace its steps and the pain of people and their relatives. anyway, it's at the same time an act of shame to move and disappear bones from mass graves, an act equivalent, i sometimes think, to the very act of murder. i therefore think it is right to call on turkey to stop this shameful action, to show us where the burial sites of the missing and murdered are, and to open its archives so that the committee of inquiry can know where to look. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fight is a fight to find the bones of all the dead of the cyprus tragedy greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. that is why i have expressed my honour and appreciation to the greek and turkish cypriot people who are working in this direction.
i'm the editor. - mr president, commissioner, a war crime committed in 1974 by the turkish army that invaded cyprus, with mass executions of unregistered prisoners and civilians, who were buried in unknown mass graves for years in the occupied territories, is coming to the surface again in the wake of the tragic case of the mass graves found in the village of ornithy and in other areas. in these cases the turkish army moved the bones of murdered civilians from the village of assia to an unknown location. and only a few remains have been found. the bones are moved to avoid determining the cause of death of the victims. we therefore call on the european parliament to call on turkey to stop its irreverent behaviour towards the dead; to stop its insult to humanity; the european union is also calling on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the dead are not moved from mass graves and to open up its military archives and so-called 'military zones' for investigation and the return of the dead to their families.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, for forty years turkey has occupied part of our homeland, in violation of every principle of european and international law, with tragic consequences for our people, for cyprus and for the european union itself. the most tragic aspect of this cypriot drama is the aspect of the missing. the fact that there have been cypriot missing persons for 40 years is because turkey, in this particularly humanitarian matter, has shown a cruel and inhuman face. he refuses to open the turkish military files to investigate their fate. where mass graves of missing persons are found, it is also called "closed military area". and the most important, and the most important, and the most disgusting thing is that he moves the bones of missing people, as he did in asia, to cover his tracks. unfortunately, that is turkey. this is turkey that has no respect for the dead. this is turkey, which is actually seeking to become a member state of the european union. this is turkey, which is receiving pre-accession aid. we call for sanctions against turkey in this matter.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, human drama does not distinguish between races and ethnic origins. what is now happening in the occupied part of cyprus is a second crime against all humanity, since, 40 years later, the turkish occupation regime is moving the bones of the missing in an attempt to erase evidence that would lead to their tracing. think of the relatives of the missing wondering what happened to their people. think about burying a piece of their finger or a piece of their foot. europe cannot turn a blind eye and we must immediately call on turkey to cooperate in the full investigation of the fate of the missing greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. there's no place for political games here. the honor of the dead is the most sacred thing in europe. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's communication on the energy union contains omissions and problematic references. it is important to start with concrete proposals to tackle energy poverty and ensure equal access to cheap energy for all. the proposal to make the involvement of the commission compulsory in transnational agreements, from the initial stage to the end, is particularly problematic; the commission's proposal to involve the commission in the negotiations and the attempt to intervene in trade agreements concluded by member states are also discussed. the commission's role should be advisory and optional, so as not to undermine the ability of member states to negotiate the content of their agreements. the commission cannot claim a strengthened role when the european union has so far been unable to break the energy isolation of the member states and regions of the european union. i would remind you that the target for lifting the lockdown was by the end of 2015, which cannot be achieved. the commission cannot ask for increased powers when it has so far failed to ensure the energy security of the union, while at the same time many member states are facing serious problems in their energy supply. finally, it is a major omission to make any substantive reference to the need to exploit the deposits of the eastern mediterranean, and in particular those deposits located in a member state such as cyprus, which are important for strengthening energy security in europe today.
in writing. i am pleased that some colleagues now accept that budgetary measures are not enough to solve the problem of the economy and to get the european economy back on a growth track. this is ideological progress when it comes from those who believe that the free market alone works for the good of the citizen. however, it is not enough to simply point out that we are wrong. it's not enough to point out the wrong way. we need to point in the right direction. the us got into this economic crisis long before the eu, but it's clearly in a better position than we are. what did they do differently? they did not stop at theoretical remarks but the us federal reserve quickly moved to an expansionary monetary policy. in the eu for years some people have seen ghosts, like inflation, only to come to talk today about the opposite, about the danger of deflation. i would like to conclude with a question concerning the european central bank (ecb). expectations in the economy, as projected by markets, play a crucial role in restoring confidence and, by extension, in restoring growth in the real economy. after the announcement of the ecb's quantitative easing programme with bond purchases, we saw the first signs. are you satisfied ? is this what you expected? if not, do you have an alternative design?
s & d) and the mr president, children are not aware of political expediency, so we must listen to them. i am therefore going to convey to you, very shortly, a letter that was given to me by the children of a nicosia primary school and i am conveying to you their anguish. she's only eight years old. they wonder why they should live and grow up in a divided country, where a third is occupied by foreign turkish troops. they wonder why these children, within the european union, do not have the right to freedom in their own country. but also in connection with the economic crisis they ask themselves why they have no food to eat and no clothes to wear, why there are children unhappy in our country within the european union. the one-sided austerity policies are to blame. and they end with a phrase and a hint for all of us: take cyprus, it is also a country of the european union!
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the threat of a crisis. for years turkey has been imposing a piratical, illegal, arbitrary and cynical naval embargo on ships flying the flag of cyprus and has subsequently imposed an embargo on european ships. it is unacceptable and unthinkable that turkey should be allowed to violate the ankara protocol - which it signed and which until now was essentially obliged to recognize the republic of cyprus and open its ports and airspace - and thus insult and challenge the european union itself. we, as cyprus, are faced with enormous shipping and financial costs. the european union itself is bearing this cost, and the european union, at the same time as it is bearing the cost of a country under accession, turkey, is actually bearing and providing pre-accession assistance to that country. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, which are not in line with the commission's proposal.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are fighting for the extension of women's conquests until full and substantial equality of the sexes is achieved. the european united left group tabled a number of amendments which helped to improve the commission's report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, in view of the positive elements contained in the text, we are voting against this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report moves in the familiar neoliberal framework of eu economic policy, with market self-regulation being the main issue of ecb policy. the commitment to neoliberal austerity policies and to the completion of the single market is expressed in the repeated reference to the need for structural reforms in the member states. the report calls for more market freedom and therefore more neoliberal austerity measures. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we welcome montenegro's intention to have a closer relationship with the european union with the ultimate aim of accession. we have a principle that any country which meets the copenhagen criteria and whose people want to join, we must support that effort. but at the same time we think that attempting to impose, especially on a small country, economic or military choices, that is to say the conditions for a specific economic policy and, more particularly, the conditions for nato membership, is tantamount to bullying, the well-known intimidation, as the older pupils do to the younger ones. the european union must change course immediately, lest it end up as a black hole that swallows everything around it, so that in the end even this light cannot escape.
the commission madam president, skopje cannot under any circumstances start accession procedures unless it first respects democracy within the country itself, applies the rule of law and carries out democratic reforms. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union, and that the european union is not forced to accept the european union's citizens as citizens. the lack of progress on reforms and democracy in skopje is not due to any name dispute, but to inherent internal weaknesses. greece as a member state of the european union has in the past helped very little to the people of skopje and the economy of the country. greece has shown all its good intentions for a solution to the problem on the basis of a name that will satisfy all parties and allow for the normalization of relations between the two states. what we do not accept, neither from the european union, nor from mrs mogherini, nor from skopje, is the interception of our history and the skopje leadership maintains an unnecessary nationalism that harms the people and hinders democratic developments in the country.
the commission madam president, what i must point out is that those who know little of the history of the balkans know very well that skopje, fyrom, was not and can never be macedonia, because it has nothing to do with the thousands of years of culture and history that spring from greece and not from skopje. and i am sorry, really, that my dear colleagues are ignoring history and getting carried away by the propaganda of the skopje. i would like to know whether they would be so willing to sell their history and culture for their own country and give it to another country that has nothing to do with that history, and if they are really so generous about it, let them do it for their own country. what are we asking for today? greece asks nothing less and nothing more of this european parliament than to respect international law and to support a country threatened by a neighbouring country.
the commission madam president, we strongly support serbia's accession to the european union and i congratulate mr mcallister on the excellent report he has produced. i believe that this country and the serbian people need more support from the european union, especially in the area of the development of democratic institutions and reforms. serbia is prepared to move in this direction. in addition, it has two main advantages. the first is that it can become a stabilizing factor in the balkans and the second is that, having the experience of the past, it can become an industrial and agricultural centre in the region again. now, as regards relations with russia, i do not think we can ignore the fact that turkey is not following the common european policy and has excellent relations with russia, which is not due to orthodoxy, because one country is muslim and the other orthodox, while for serbia this is a negative element. it can be a bridge to understanding with russia. serbia has shown excellent cooperation with the special international tribunal for war crimes in the former yugoslavia, but also on the issue of disputes with kosovo, a region which is the cradle for serbs, for serbian culture.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr juncker, energy is not a commodity to be used for profit for the benefit of monopolies and multinationals. it's a basic social good. the energy union must therefore first of all combat energy poverty, ensure equal access for all to cheap energy and promote energy infrastructure and interconnections for the benefit of the people. the european council must set these priorities. the united left will oppose the creation of an energy union that serves private interests and exacerbates inequalities and exclusions. secondly, the proposal to inform the commission in advance of member states' energy agreements with third countries is totally contrary to our position, since it limits the sovereignty of the states and their role, but also limits national flexibility in the formation of efficient multi-dimensional transnational energy relations. the european council must first of all promote concrete measures to break the isolation of the member states and promote measures to deal effectively with the problems of energy supply. we must realize that for an energy union to work positively it must go hand in hand with the end of neoliberal austerity policies and the promotion of a social, development policy. and a comment about mr weber. mr weber, please respect democracy! respect the verdict of the greek people! we are not living in a colonial regime. the greek people cannot decide to change a policy and you want to force them to continue the same destructive policy.
s & d) and the mr president, we are talking today about energy union and energy security, and of course we all have in mind the european union's great dependence on russia and the geopolitical games being played there, which of course have a negative impact on our family here in the european union. but what i want to stress to you and to the commission, and to my colleagues, is that we must show our solidarity in action by tackling this issue and by enhancing and recognising the fact that within the european union we have our own resources. they are within the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus and if we want to prove that we are a family, we have this paper in front of us. do we want to reduce our dependence on russia? let's upgrade our own reserves and take on erdogan. we are therefore demonstrating that we believe in european values and that we are all in the same family.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the from a technical point of view, the codification process is only intended to simplify and improve the understanding of legislation. the report explicitly states that there is no change in the substance of the rules of procedure. however, from a political point of view, there is a problem with the original regulation as turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus and therefore the republic of cyprus is not included in the agreement. in addition, there is no clear reference to the issue of agricultural products from occupied territories. we have therefore voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this year's budget report focuses on and supports the jünger investment plan and going one step further proposes further liberalisation of market rules to promote competitiveness. the results of this neoliberal policy have already been seen. it is these that have led to the poverty, unemployment and misery that people are experiencing today. we voted against the budgetary guidelines because they follow neoliberal policies. this year's report has just about all the elements of the eu's neoliberal course. militarisation, deregulation of market rules, competitiveness as the solution to all the union's problems, and full support for the juncker package aimed at serving the monopolies and increasing the profits of big business.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is clear that the ms and by extension the eu are facing increased losses of revenue leakage from their budgets, thus shifting the burden of the crisis onto societies. the report, however, unfortunately does not give a detailed account of the causes and sources of fraud and corruption, and the problem is essentially one of increased irregularities. akel and the european united left group have been very strong in their support for the crackdown on tax evasion and fraud to improve the ability of the state to raise revenue.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the text contains a number of points of disagreement. first, there is a strong call for economic reforms within the framework of neoliberal economic policy. the report also calls for the acceleration of the process of accession of montenegro to nato and encourages the participation of montenegro in military missions. we are not opposed to montenegro's desire to join the eu, but we cannot vote against a report which is a hymn to nato action, neoliberal austerity policies and military interventions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution emphasizes the difference in the name and essentially calls for greece's objections to be overruled in order to start negotiations immediately. it also called on all nato states to support the accession of fyrom to the alliance. the resolution also calls for eu accession negotiations to be opened and for the name issue to be resolved before they are completed. we are of the opinion that the name problem must be seen in the context of international law and under the auspices of the un in order to find a mutually acceptable solution before negotiations can begin. we recognize the term macedonia in fyrom, but only as a geographical concept in contrast to the way the skopje leadership understands it. we therefore support a commonly accepted solution which states exclusively geographical identification, away from nationalisms which divide peoples. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. that is why we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report makes positive references to the need to safeguard freedom of speech, enhance transparency and safeguard minority rights and labour rights. however, we cannot ignore the fact that in the report kosovo is presented as an independent state. the report also criticises serbia for conducting joint exercises with russia and calls for alignment of serbia's foreign policy with eu foreign policy, including towards russia. finally, the call for serbia to undertake structural economic reforms, such as privatisation and other neoliberal austerity measures, is particularly negative. i am not saying that we should not vote for the report. we are not opposed to the will of the people for a closer relationship with the eu. however, we cannot support interference in the foreign policy of countries, nor the imposition of economic models which have proved to be destructive to the peoples of europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report stresses the need to keep labour costs in line with production (i.e. reducing wages and increasing productivity), gives clear support to the juncker plan and stresses the need to continue structural reforms. the european parliament has also called for the troika to be legalised by means of a european law. the report legitimizes all the austerity policies of the memorandum and gives full support to the policies promoted by the juncker commission. we have therefore voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is in the familiar context of neoliberal policies. it only calls for the promotion of private investment, it promotes the eu's role as protector (rather than regulator) of the market, and there is no reference to workers' rights. the commission has also not provided any information on the impact of the measures on the real economy, but only on the financial services sector. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we shall vote against the report. it is a report which is a hymn to nato, despite the attempt to convince us that it wants the european union to be a protagonist in international developments. it also recognises that nato is a guarantee of the european union's collective defence. although security, stability and peace are emphasized, the main objective is further militarization, the strengthening of the european union's intervention capabilities, always in full coordination with nato. this is not the european union we envision. we want a europe which promotes peace, cooperation and solidarity between peoples. the european parliament has been a great supporter of the european union's efforts to promote democracy and human rights in the world. we are calling for, among other things, no funding of military missions from the european union budget and a clear separation of the european union from nato. unfortunately, the european union's foreign policy priorities, as presented in mr brok's report, are a tool against the well-being of humanity.
the commission madam president, high representative, the brok report is an integrated approach to the european union's foreign, defence and security policy and its role as a regional global force for stability and peace. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first, the need to strengthen cybersecurity and cyber deterrence, which have multiple dimensions and include the protection of states, businesses and citizens. in the case of the ukraine war, the european union had the traumatic experience of russian cyberwar and malware codenamed euroboros, the mythical snake that eats its own tail, which paralysed the armed forces and services of ukraine, facilitating the work of the russian armed forces. an integral part of the modern strategy is cyber deterrence. the second issue i want to raise is the war on terrorism which threatens us from all sides. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission madam president, the european union's memorandum of cooperation with the arab world is important and timely. the implementation of this and the coordination of member states in combating the nightmare of terrorism are crucial factors. the arab countries are on the front line against terrorism, but they are also its first victims. this requires close cooperation and support from those moderate forces in the arab world which are fighting all forms of extremism. i come from a small country that is targeted by isis because it provides military facilities to those fighting terrorism and because the occupied part of cyprus is a hotbed of islamic fanatics. we know very well what terrorism means, and especially state terrorism, of which we are victims. cyprus cooperates closely with some arab countries in the fight against terrorism and can be an outpost of the european union in the middle east. but, as a central pillar of our policy in the war against terrorism we must have the democratization of the regimes of the arab countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is based on the philosophy that the eu must become a strong international player through further militarisation and cooperation with nato. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is based on the principle of proportionality. there are also numerous reports of condemnation from russia. the european united left group tabled a minority text explaining its own views. the eu must develop a policy based on peaceful principles, free from military means and interventions, and promote the demilitarisation of international relations which have brought the peoples of the world into a state of chaos. to free itself from nuclear weapons and to contribute to the denuclearization of the planet. to promote a policy based on full respect for international law, the un charter, the universal declaration of human rights. and they don't have room for two meters and two scales. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu will thus be able to contribute to the consolidation of peace.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report contains many problematic references with which we disagree. the european parliament has called for the strengthening of the instruments used to intervene in the internal affairs of third countries in the name of promoting democracy and human rights. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide human rights monitoring system, which would be a key element in the implementation of the eu's human rights policy. the two-pronged approach to human rights abuses outside the eu and the reference to child labour, which is presented as conditional, is particularly problematic. the report also lacks important elements which the group of the european united left has tried to incorporate through amendments. such references are the impact of the crisis on the rights and freedoms of european societies, the right of peoples to self-determination, opposition to pnr agreements, the responsibility of companies to compensate victims of accidents they have caused, cia torture and nsa surveillance calling for a suspension of ttip negotiations, and the fight against all forms of violence against women, including psychological violence.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we condemn the criminal attacks. however, we must also look at the objectives of these actions and who benefits from them. the so-called jihadists are the creations of the united states and the ruling circles that have armed, empowered, organized and used them in their imperialist interventions and plans in the wider region. so now, as in the past, they methodically exploit "terrorism" as a pretext to legitimize and promote policies and measures of surveillance and repression. we cannot accept new measures to censor and monitor private life, to create secret services and to strengthen repressive mechanisms which will result in the restriction and suppression of basic freedoms and democratic rights. we cannot accept measures to further the savage hunting of migrants and refugees in the context of border controls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the struggle to promote policies that aim to serve the needs of man and society.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we do not need dinners or lunches to convey our views, we convey them here in full transparency, as we convey our views to the commission and to the committees of parliament. as far as the european union is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the council conclusions made a significant reference to the need to safeguard the sovereignty and the sovereign rights of the member states to explore and develop natural resources. but no attempt is being made to pressure turkey to stop its illegal actions and its harassment of the republic of cyprus in the exercise of its sovereign rights to explore and exploit its natural resources, as it is of course also preventing the resumption of intercommunal talks on a solution to the cyprus problem. there is no pressure on turkey to fulfil its contractual obligations, apart from the fact that turkey is thereby affecting the energy development of the region as a whole, and the energy security of the european union. the council conclusions also mention the importance of exploiting indigenous energy sources. however, the role that the natural gas fields of cyprus and the wider eastern mediterranean region can play is overlooked. the same omission is found in both the commission communication on the energy union and the communication on energy security. now, as far as the economy is concerned: the decisions of the european council also confirmed the continuation of the neoliberal austerity policies which led to the current crisis. it is not enough, mr tusk, to see economic indicators improve while people are sinking deeper and deeper into poverty, unemployment and misery. as far as greece is concerned, the european council, the commission, the european central bank and the eurogroup must stop the financial blackmail. the greek government is demanding for its country and its people an end to the destructive policies imposed by the troika and the memoranda. let the greek government implement its programme to deal with the humanitarian crisis and provide substantial support to the greek people. support the efforts of the greek government and let it implement the reforms that previous governments have failed to do, and i am talking about reforms that can boost the real economy, but also tackle the serious problems of tax evasion and corruption, because it has finally been confirmed in practice that leaving the memorandum does not mean freedom from the policies of harsh austerity. apart from greece and cyprus, which are in a memorandum regime, countries such as ireland, spain and portugal, which are supposed to have left the memoranda, continue the same austerity policies, continue privatisations, the sale of housing, the erosion of the welfare state, the increase in unemployment and the impoverishment of the people. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european union's intention to create the energy union must aim at ensuring energy security for all eu countries. the european council rightly stressed the eu's obligation to protect the energy reserves of its member countries, which are also the eu's own energy reserves. it is therefore a fundamental obligation of the eu to protect in every way possible the energy reserves located in the exclusive economic zones of member countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean region, and we are convinced that the european union will continue to play a leading role in this area. the turkish authorities are openly violating the cypriot eez and the sovereign rights of cyprus, an eu member state. the european union must, if it really means the european energy union in practice, do everything possible to safeguard europe's energy reserves and send a clear message of severe sanctions to turkey. at the same time, i must denounce turkey's intention to build a nuclear power station in akuyu, an earthquake-prone area, endangering the whole region. the fact that turkey is disdainful of everyone else in this respect should be of concern to the eu, to which turkey is a candidate country.
s & d) and the madam president, the toll in syria is dramatic and we have a country in ruins, with over 220 000 dead, while thousands of civilians and children are among the victims. the number of refugees is about 4 million, and the number of displaced persons 7.6 million. and while the humanitarian crisis in syria is deepening, there have been no adequate and effective initiatives by the european union to resolve it. it must finally be understood by all that the greatest enemy of humanity is isis. is it time to come to an understanding with iran and the syrian regime to bring about some stability? the ultimate goal of all of us must be to end this situation so that the civilian population no longer suffers.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the for months we have been witnessing the dramatic results of eu policy in ukraine. instead of promoting peace, the eu is promoting its own economic and geopolitical interests. so we have increased conflict, continued war, more deaths and human rights violations. the ukrainian people are paying with their blood and their misery for the west's insistence on breaking the ukraine-russia ties, bringing the country into nato and imposing the imf's anti-people policies on the country's economy with fire and steel. we voted against the report because it is precisely moving in this direction. where are the provisions that would require the poroshenko government to respect the minsk agreement? where is the commitment by ukraine that the resources given to it by the peoples of the eu will not be channelled into weapons and equipment? how will the life of the ukrainian people improve when the eu wants to chain them to the imf memoranda? where is the strategy for transparency and the fight against corruption? where is the plan for social and democratic reforms in ukraine that will heal its wounds? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
s&d), in writing. the current refusal of turkey to recognize the genocide is an integral part of the crime and at the same time, it is the seed for the repetition of such crimes. the armenian genocide should not be discussed simply as a historical event, but as a political lesson for the present and the future. when the crimes of the ottoman empire and later that of nazi germany took place, some states and politicians of the time chose the attitude of appeasement and the so-called policy of cooperation, but today everyone condemns those crimes. however, history repeats itself with erdogan's turkey bringing back that repulsive figure through its neo-ottoman vision. cyprus, with one third of its european territory still occupied by turkish troops, is proof that crimes are still being perpetrated today because of political and individual motives in favour of turkey, while we condemn the crime it committed 100 years ago. we want a turkey with a european perspective, which respects the institutions and the legitimacy of the eu and does not serve selfish interests. the question we must consider is whether we should condemn genocide in retrospect, or whether it would be better for humanity to prevent it from being committed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i think we will not have a complete picture unless i inform you of what mr davutoglu and mr erdogan have just said on the subject. mr davutoglu said that the pope's statements were aligning him with the axis of evil. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. i think it is useful for parliament to be aware of this during our debate. i was in favour of voting in favour of an amendment which said that we welcome recent statements by mr erdogan, who expressed regret at the tragic, as he simply calls it, 'events' of 2015. i must say that i am now troubled by the aforementioned statement. however, i believe that turkey must come to terms with its past and must recognize the facts and call them genocide. i understand that a century of teaching in turkish schools about non-genocide is not helping. however, real political leadership is shown in such moments. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the genocide of the kurds, and we must be able to take action to prevent the genocide of the kurds, and we must be able to take action to prevent the genocide of the kurds, and we must be able to take action to prevent the genocide of the kurds. the proposal from turkey for joint study of the archives by armenians and turks is, in my view, going to lead to no other result than the waste of another century of debate on this subject, to nowhere. the image presented by turkey, that the european parliament is waging war, is wrong. the european parliament is dealing with it because turkey, if it wants to join the european union, must solve its problems, both at home and abroad - problems with the kurds, with the armenians, with greece, with iraq, with iran, with cyprus.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. turkey is clearly responsible for the genocide of armenians, greeks, assyrians, chaldeans in asia minor in the twentieth century, and it has never apologized for this crime. on the contrary, he twists the story: the other day in ankara, they were telling us with a frightening audacity that it was the armenians who were doing the massacres. peace and reconciliation can only come when turkey becomes a democratic state and apologizes for this crime. until then, in the collective memory of nations, turkey will be burdened with these crimes. we can't erase the history. no one asked the jews to delete the holocaust so that jewish children would not hate the nazis. on the contrary, it was only when willy brandt, in his brave act of apologizing, made a real reconciliation that the two peoples were loved and supported by each other. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the armenians are being forced to live in a state of war, and that the armenians are being forced to live in a state of war.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in this genocide, one and a half million armenians were slaughtered in the most horrible way. the fact that turkey has for a hundred years stubbornly refused to recognize the armenian genocide is still a challenge to civilized humanity and a challenge to europe itself. turkey is not only responsible for the armenian genocide, turkey is responsible for other genocides. from 1914 to 1923, he exterminated thousands of greeks in pontus, asia minor and thrace. it proceeded, in 1955, with the disappearance of the greeks from constantinople and continues to this day the ethnic cleansing, with modern means and modern methods, in cyprus. those who have experienced turkish barbarity have no doubt that the turks are not going to recognize the armenian genocide and they are not going to recognize it because reality clearly shows that turkey has a policy of exterminating all its neighbors. turkey is pursuing a policy of barbarism both at home and abroad.
s & d) and the mr president, think about what humanity would be like today if germany had not recognized the holocaust and the atrocities of the nazis, think about what societies would be like today. the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty for the armenians. turkey must recognize the genocide not only as a historical fact but as a guarantee that it will not commit new genocides. turkey does not recognize the armenian genocide, it does not recognize the pontic genocide, it does not recognize the ethnic cleansing in cyprus. the european union must play a leading role in genuinely healing the wounds, but it must not turn a blind eye.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the united nations convention which the european union has ratified guarantees the rights of persons with disabilities both in employment and in dignity, equality and fundamental freedoms. it is therefore very important that the european union takes positive action in this direction. unfortunately, this is not enough, as it is only a piecemeal step in the right direction. the neoliberal policies of severe austerity promoted by the union and implemented by several member states are primarily affecting vulnerable groups, such as the disabled, and are pushing them into poverty and deprivation, leading to their marginalization. the employment quota for disabled people in the union's institutions is not enough, because a shift towards policies that deepen the welfare state, integrate vulnerable groups in society and put the private sector in charge is needed. as a united left we are ready to support positive action, but we do not forget the main cause of poverty and social exclusion, which is the breakdown of the welfare state and the austerity policies pursued by the union and the member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we consider the special circumstances of each member state to be of great importance. the resolution aims to strengthen cooperation under the auspices of and within the commission with a view to modernising social security funds and working conditions. this of course implies further monitoring by the member states. in our view, the imposition of policies on member states by the eu would be disastrous, especially for countries with small economies such as cyprus. in view of the neoliberal direction of eu policies and in the knowledge of the disastrous consequences of imposing the neoliberal policies of harsh austerity, we decided to vote against.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we cannot justify the persistence of neo-liberal policies to support large capital, nor the efforts to promote full market liberalization. what the economy needs is a shift towards public spending, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, respect for the specific circumstances of each country, a decent standard of living for all citizens and the creation of permanent jobs with guaranteed labour rights. we have therefore decided to vote against the report because we do not believe that the commission should define the employment policies of the member states on the basis of the guidelines of the european semester.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we disagree with both the logic of the union's budget and the way it is allocated. we are in favour of the best possible use of funds to improve the quality of life of the people. for the above reasons, we consider it politically incorrect to let funds that were part of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and that were neither spent in 2014 nor included in the 2015 budget be lost. funds such as those of the european social fund, the youth guarantee, the cohesion fund, the fund for rural development, the asylum, migration and social integration fund, which concern vulnerable areas, are absolutely necessary.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the recognition of the armenian genocide by the ottoman empire is a necessary step both for the democratization of turkey and for the improvement of the country's relations with armenia. it is also very important that the resolution stresses the need for turkey to end its occupation of cyprus and to resolve the kurdish question so that the human rights of the peoples living in these countries are not violated. the resolution is a positive step towards the goal of recognizing the armenian genocide and ending the occupation and colonization of our homeland. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the need to develop and support renewable energy sources in transport is more urgent than ever. the report which we are called upon to vote on to amend the directive on this subject, however, lacks many important points. further increasing the contribution of renewable energy sources requires parallel policies, i.e. promoting appropriate infrastructure, streamlining support schemes, and exploiting opportunities for international cooperation. it is also very important to add measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers as well as measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources. finally, new projects and investments financed by the european union in the transport sector must take account of environmental protection, support the low-carbon economy and promote renewable energy sources, but also energy efficiency measures.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we believe that it is very important to have both the right training content and the right certification, especially for those with increased responsibilities (captains, officers, ship's engineers, radio operators) and especially in the categories of fishing vessels over 24 metres in length and with a propulsion power of at least 750 kw, where specific high skills are required. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the use of renewable energy sources (res) has significant positive benefits for the environment, the economy and people. the reduction of the use of polluting fossil fuels and their replacement by renewable energy sources must be a key eu objective. the eu's heavy dependence on natural gas and oil, both for electricity generation and for many other uses in industry, households and, more broadly, in sectors vital to society and the economy, creates many problems for the eu at both socioeconomic and political levels. the use of renewables, particularly today when their cost is absolutely competitive with that of less clean forms of energy, is imperative and we must create a substantial package of incentives and facilities for further development and promotion of renewables. i believe that through support for renewable energy sources from the european investment programmes, we can also combat the energy poverty that affects many eu citizens. the benefits of the widespread use of renewable energy sources are multifaceted and can be extended to all sectors of the economy and society.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the need to develop and support renewable energy sources is more urgent than ever. the report on the amendment of the directive lacks, however, a number of important points. further increasing the contribution of renewable energy sources requires parallel policies such as promoting appropriate infrastructure, streamlining renewable energy support schemes and exploiting opportunities for international cooperation. measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers, as well as measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources, should be promoted. new projects and investments funded by the eu in the transport sector must also take account of environmental protection, support the low-carbon economy and promote renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures. the report lacks all these elements, which is why we voted against it.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the if we study the evidence on the use of plastic bags and on their impact on the environment and, by extension, on human health, then we realise the need for effective measures to reduce their use. we have, in particular, firstly, 1.2 trillion plastic bags every year; secondly, each european uses on average about 200 bags, most of which end up in the garbage; thirdly, 100 billion tonnes of plastic pollute the seas and account for 90% of marine pollution; and fourthly, plastic remains in the environment for 500 to 1000 years. so the plastic particles that the bags are made of enter the food chain . although it has not been studied whether harmful chemicals are actually transmitted from fish to humans, it is known that plastics do bind pollutants. as mentioned in the green paper adopted by the european commission in march 2013, persistent organic pollutants can attach to pieces of plastic and enter the food chain via marine animals that consume the plastic. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of human health is a step in the right direction.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the plastic bags are one of the most important sources of pollution in modern society and the marine ecosystem. estimates suggest that the consumption of plastic bags is likely to increase further. in 2010 alone, over eight billion plastic bags were turned into waste in the eu. after 40 years of european waste legislation, the existing legislation marks the beginning of binding measures at european union level to reduce waste production. the specific measures referred to in the resolution ensure a significant reduction in annual consumption levels of the plastic bag and strict monitoring of member states' implementation of the legislation. the new european regulation, i believe, is a quick and effective way of drawing up a comprehensive strategy to deal with the consequences of the uncontrolled use of plastic bags for the environment and marine habitats. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the limitation of the use of plastic bags.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the new legislation on the use of plastic bags, which includes strict measures to limit their use, is an important measure to reduce waste, and in particular plastic, which will help reduce environmental pollution. however, we must take seriously the social and economic implications of the implementation of the new legislation. in no case should and will we agree to passing the cost on to the consumer as a measure to limit the use of bags. secondly, it is important to stress that the measure of limiting the use of the plastic bag alone is not enough to achieve the quality of life we desire. it is clear to us that this measure must be part of an integrated strategy for waste management and environmental protection.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the climate change and its impact on the environment are a major concern. we consider it necessary to take measures to reduce co2 emissions, particularly in international maritime transport, which remains the only mode of transport not included in the commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, we think that the eu's basic policy on tackling climate change and the notion that the solution can be found through market mechanisms is wrong, especially when we consider that the anarchic operation of these mechanisms, driven only by enrichment, is precisely what has made these problems so enormous. for the above reasons we have decided to abstain.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the united states, which is the only country in the world that has a military presence in the region. we consider that the european parliament's agreement to include croatia in the cooperation protocol with russia, following the latter's accession to the eu, is a positive step.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the our aim is to strengthen public and free education, which will provide young students with multi-level and multi-dimensional knowledge, so that they in turn can contribute to the development of society. to achieve this, public funding for education must be strengthened and the promotion of corporate interests in universities prevented. unfortunately, the bologna process is trying to adapt knowledge to market measures while opening the doors of universities to private enterprise. the attempt to create a common framework for reforms also finds us at odds, since each member state has the right and the duty to define its own policy on education and training. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european union has in recent years been faced with an insurmountable social nightmare, unemployment. the mediterranean and southern countries in particular are suffering severe social damage from the continuing increase in unemployment, with thousands of our fellow citizens, european citizens, living below the poverty line, without work, prospects or hope for themselves and their families. the most tragic aspect of unemployment is the unemployment of young people who, while in the most productive years of their lives, with enormous potential and qualifications, with dreams and hopes and with a great appetite for work and supply, unfortunately end up in the endless queue of the unemployment fund. youth unemployment rates in many european union countries exceed 25%. we must not rest until every last young european is in work, producing and participating in the socioeconomic development of europe. we support the european commission's decision to release eur 1 billion immediately for prefinancing the operational programmes for 2015. we expect further european initiatives in this direction in order to deal effectively with the nightmare of youth unemployment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i do not know why i have to repeat that in order to solve this problem we must first of all look at the causes of it. the main cause is primarily wars. no one leaves his home, even risking his life, unless that life is threatened or he has nothing to eat. so let the wars end. but how ? with this europe that is the arm of the united states war machine? we need above all a europe which is a lever for peace, a europe which is an autonomous pole of world peace. there are some good ideas for dealing with the effects of wars, such as establishing temporary settlements in countries in the region with relative stability, such as, perhaps, egypt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are not deprived of their right to fish. i don't know if there's any way to describe that shame.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ every people has the right to choose its own path and determine its own future. we therefore respect the will of the albanian people and their government to cooperate more closely with the eu. but we cannot agree with the attempt to force the albanian government to align its foreign policy with the eu's foreign policy. we also consider it wrong to try to impose on albania the neoliberal economic policies of the eu which have led the peoples of europe to poverty. for the above reasons we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the the report merely codifies the existing texts without changing their substance. the commission's aim in codifying community law is to simplify it so that it is more understandable to the citizen and to provide legal certainty as to the applicable law. however, in view of the substance of the agreement, which refers to the issue of the agreement on the association of bosnia and herzegovina with the eu, the liberalization of products and everything else that such agreements entail, we abstained. the position of abstention is consistent with our position on such agreements, respecting the position of states and citizens for a closer relationship with the eu and at the same time maintaining our opposition to the neoliberal economic policies imposed through the association agreements.
in writing. ‒ the the state aid sector is of great importance to our perception. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. their orientation should be to focus on strengthening and strengthening the economy by directing spending where each cm really needs it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of new products. the result will be to encourage big business in the name of free trade and competition at the expense of the real small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the economy, and also of other institutions which are essential to society. we are also opposed to the fact that this state aid policy will be largely determined by the commission, thus intervening in the internal affairs of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the this report sets out a common framework of rules for money market mutual funds (mmfs) which in fact concerns funds which make short-term investments for short-term gains. it is clear that we are against these groups. experience has already shown that in some cases they have shown an inability to keep investment prices stable as promised, eventually causing financial panic. the main reason we decided to vote against was the rejection by parliament of the clause in the report on the closure of certain categories of these investment funds.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ draft report on the estimated revenue and expenditure situation of the european parliament for the financial year 2016 (2015/2012bud). this report concerns the annual budget of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. at the same time as member states are pursuing policies of cuts, particularly in the social services of the member states, the epp and the liberals have tried to pass unjustified increases, while at the same time promoting measures to lay off parliament's staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the the report refers to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office (eppo) to investigate and reduce alleged fraud against the union's financial interests. in this respect, the commission, without any evidence, blames the lack of progress on the work of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) in the member states, rather than on any shortcomings of olaf itself. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. at the same time, the two reports on the subject are characterized by an excessive effort to advance the issue, bypassing on the one hand the necessary thorough study of the impact of the creation of such a body on national criminal proceedings and on the other hand the concerns of many national parliaments. finally, it seems that the member states will lose their powers, which will be transferred to this eu institution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission madam president, of course, democratization is required for albania to become a member of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the greek minority is being diminished and oppressed and albania is violating the corfu protocol on the freedoms of self-government, education and religion of the greeks. the violations of the protocol led to greece's appeal and vindication to the international court of justice in the hague. in this country, the secret services are monitoring and intimidating and murdering the greek population. the operation of public greek schools and the use of the greek language in public services are prohibited, and there are no greek-language broadcasts on television and radio. the activities of archbishop anastasios are being dramatically impeded. the greek cultural heritage is being destroyed and looted. the south is being systematically settled by settlers from kosovo, greeks are being displaced and the election of minorities to municipal authorities is prohibited. we'll see the results in a few days. albania refuses to return the ecclesiastical, communal and private property confiscated by the hoxha regime. the democratic nature of the elections and the independence of the judiciary are being called into question. the european union must recognize the dangers posed by the intention of tirana to integrate, occupy kosovo and tetovo. albania must always remember that greece in the past embraced albanian citizens and offered them protection, work and shelter. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. if you think what i said is excessive, i can give you all the evidence i have at my disposal as soon as we finish this conversation. once we finish this conversation, you'll have all this information, and, if you want, we'll go to the polls together in 15 days.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr goffredo bettini, on his report and his constructive attitude. bosnia and herzegovina has not adapted the trade concessions granted under the interim agreement on trade with the european union following the accession of croatia in 2013. the european union rightly warns that the autonomous trade measures will be suspended if bosnia does not adapt the interim agreement to a preferential trade regime with croatia. the european union does not accept a country that refuses to implement the trade agreement with all its member states and the suspension of trade preferences is an incentive to resolve this dispute. we consider the introduction of the human rights clause to be very important precisely because it gives the european union the possibility of suspending trade preferences in the event of violations of fundamental human rights principles. the turkish government has for ten years refused to implement the customs union with all its member states and the republic of cyprus and has continued its embargo. we believe that the same rules should apply to turkey.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the joint resolution unfortunately follows the logic of administrative measures and most of the responsibilities (with the life jackets) in frontex. nor does it address the main reasons why migrants are forced to seek their fortunes elsewhere, namely the imposed economic policies and interventions and instability in their countries. what is needed now is immediate measures to deal with the present situation, measures based on international law, solidarity, human rights and human dignity. we urgently need a different approach to immigration so that refugees are no longer treated as criminals. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ every people has the right to choose its own path and determine its own future. we therefore respect the will of the albanian people and their government to cooperate more closely with the eu. but we cannot agree with the attempt to force the albanian government to align its foreign policy with the eu's foreign policy. we also consider it wrong to try to impose on albania the neoliberal economic policies of the eu which have led the peoples of europe to poverty. for these reasons we have chosen to abstain.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we are not opposed to the accession of any country to the eu, as long as this is the wish of its people and as long as it also meets the accession criteria. the report does not, however, propose the promotion of economic reforms within the framework of a neoliberal policy. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in bosnia-herzegovina, which is a very important subject for the european union. for the above reasons we have chosen to abstain.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the some of the points in our report are in agreement. it is important to mention the contradiction between the eib's capital increase on the one hand and the reduction of its investments in the eu on the other. the commission has also proposed that the eib should be given greater weight in the community's financing of public and productive investment. the report also expresses parliament's concern that the new project finance bond scheme will reduce the cost of private investment rather than promote public interest investment. unfortunately, however, amendments have been adopted by the epp with the help of the liberals, who are completely opposed to us. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. for these reasons we abstained.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the 2015 milan international expo does not address the root causes of hunger, poverty and exploitation of the earth's resources at all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the european parliament's deliberations. unfortunately, the report highlights and promotes the interests of the organisers, which are private companies and multinationals, but at the same time there are a number of positive points which we cannot ignore. first, the report calls for measures to implement the millennium development goals; second, it highlights the right to healthy food, housing, property and education and points to the need to safeguard these rights; third, it recognises that investment and trade agreements have devastating consequences for food security when the long-term leasing or sale of arable land to private investors results in local populations being deprived of access to productive resources; and, finally, it states that the sustainable eradication of hunger will not be achieved simply by providing enough food for all but only by allowing small farmers to grow and feed their crops on the land. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations for a solution to the cyprus problem have been resumed. we hope that this time there will be a positive outcome, that turkish intolerance and the provocative refusal to recognize the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus will be lifted. our commitment to a solution, on the basis of the relevant un resolutions, international law and the relevant framework, is a given. the previously achieved convergence between the leaders of the two communities of christofia and talat is an important asset which must be exploited. we expect active support from the european union in the struggle for the reunification of cyprus on the basis of a solution of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation that respects international law, ensures the indivisibility of our homeland and our people, demilitarises cyprus, puts an end to the anachronistic regime of guarantees, and guarantees the human rights of all cypriots. we call on you to exert your influence in ankara so that it can finally make a substantial and constructive contribution to the solution of the cyprus problem.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report shall set out the regulatory provisions for the supervision of the implementation of these indicators and their control in terms of the data generated and the methodology used. it also mentions the effort to control for any conflict of interest and the protection of investors. despite all the above, the report has not succeeded in improving the regulations so as to at least broaden the systemic indicators to a satisfactory degree. moreover, the report fails to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided. for the above reasons, we have decided to vote against.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i agree that the mobilisation of domestic resources and official development assistance (oda) are indispensable pillars of development finance and must be strengthened. given the limited capacity of developing countries to mobilise domestic resources, external assistance and support is of the utmost importance. it is worth noting that the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, providing 60% of the world's official development assistance, but this is neither publicised nor adequately advertised. i believe that this important aid should be given on a priority basis. these priorities must be health, education, infrastructure, water supply and access for the most vulnerable groups. development banks also need to play a role by mobilising additional funds to reduce the gap in infrastructure financing and access to credit in developing countries through monitoring and impact assessment mechanisms. the eu must continue to have as a key objective the targeted financing of development in developing countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the question of overcoming the crisis and creating growth is one of the most important issues. the neoliberal policies of harsh austerity, which are deepening the recession, must be ended immediately. the commission's report supports these measures, but parliament's report does not. the report stresses the importance of public funding, as well as the need for equitable redistribution of domestic resources and in particular the benefits from natural resources. it emphasizes the financing system, rejecting lending as a means of development aid. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been killed in the fighting in the region, including the victims of the ebola virus. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are very concerned about the health of the citizens. general patient safety and healthcare-associated infections, which are the subjects of this council recommendation, are therefore of paramount importance. as demonstrated by the commission's first report in 2012, there is a need for more effort in many areas (e.g. education and training of nursing staff, strengthening of patients' rights, development of a learning-from-mistakes climate). unfortunately, the effects of the economic crisis are also evident in this area, as implementation has been slowed down by cuts, as the report acknowledges. although the eu's neoliberal policies limit the possibility of a sound health policy, any individual effort to do so must be supported. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i fully agree with the emphasis on the importance and value of smes for the economy of the european union. indeed, smes represent 98% of european enterprises, account for more than 68% of total employment in the union and 58% of value added. in fact, nine out of ten enterprises are small and employ 10 or fewer people, and these very small enterprises provide 53% of all jobs in europe. they are the main engine of economic growth in the eu. significantly , employment in environmental goods and services increased by 20% over the period 2007-2011 despite the crisis . it is noted that the global market for environmental goods and services is worth €1 trillion per year and is expected to double by 2020, creating huge opportunities and potential for europe's smes. the eu is right to focus on green development and take initiatives to do so . the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year. today, the primary objective of all eu countries must be to 'green' their economies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although the report is presented as a policy of support for smes, it completely ignores the intolerable neoliberal austerity measures imposed on smes and, consequently, the many problems they face. instead, the reason for the failure of smes to develop is simply their personal inability to take advantage of new technologies, information and new forms of organisation, particularly in relation to green development. as regards the environmental sustainability objective, it is not promoted, as it is claimed, to protect the environment by ensuring a better quality of life for people but is used to achieve the ultimate goal of developing the eu's competitiveness. we cannot support a text which promotes the shifting of taxation of labour from employers to consumers, which will of course benefit big business and big capital, nor can we support proposals to promote changes in education to serve the needs of the market and private interests. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of information centres for smes, which will be able to provide information on the activities of smes in the member states. for the above reasons, we have decided to vote against.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we support the european union's common defence and security policy, but we believe that this policy must be strengthened and transformed into a more substantial security and defence policy which should not be limited to small-scale missions and the financing of peace operations. the modest nature of csdp interventions does not make a substantial contribution to the maintenance and enforcement of peace. the eu must be able and effective to intervene at all levels of crisis management and not be limited to intervening only after any crisis. the cfsp is indeed part of the wider foreign policy and cfsp dimension, where this key arm needs to be developed into a genuine and effective common foreign and security policy for the eu. we believe that it is time for the eu to focus on trying to complete the csdp objective because a european union is not understood, however much it may express other common policies, when it lags behind in the most important area which is the common security and defence policy. the european union, through a strong csdp, has an obligation to secure and guarantee the eu's borders and the airspace and eezs of its member countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the need to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and to combat money laundering and terrorist financing in general confirms our position on the need for state control of the market. neoliberal ideals of free and competitive markets reinforce and maintain the unbridled need of big business to enrich themselves at any cost, and this leads to phenomena such as money laundering and terrorist financing. the directive, therefore, although it is not going to solve the problem as long as neoliberal policies remain in force, is nevertheless a step in the right direction. ensuring that the public register of beneficial owners of a business is broad and as accessible as possible and contains information that allows the identification of beneficial ownership can help. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the regulation of the production and processing processes of the various minerals of the european refineries and metal industries, in order to break the link between mining of minerals and financing of conflicts in areas affected by them is a very important step. the development of a policy in the field of supply is a positive step. however, we consider the choice of the voluntary approach and the labelling system to be wrong. it would be more effective to establish a mandatory registration system and develop a policy that addresses the whole issue rather than being limited to the supply chain. the aim should be to establish a mandatory system, to avoid trafficking in human beings and non-discrimination, to register the use of recycled products and to extend the scope of the regulation to other products. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. for the above reasons we have decided to abstain.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we consider it a positive step to make any effort to improve the living conditions of our fellow disabled people. the need to eliminate any discrimination against these people is undeniable. the measures promoted must be implemented in such a way as to genuinely benefit those in need of support. we must stress that there is still much that can and must be done. unfortunately, the neoliberal measures of harsh austerity promoted by the eu are limiting the welfare state and are hitting vulnerable groups like the disabled first. we are convinced that the measures must be accompanied by a comprehensive social policy of the state which really helps disabled people to live a life of dignity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, has many positive elements, but unfortunately also some negative ones. i'll tell you about them later. i personally will focus on the new attempt to resolve the cyprus problem, which is also a subject of great concern in this report because there are real possibilities for a solution. i believe that the european union, through its representatives, should closely monitor this new process. i therefore invite the president of the european parliament, the commission representatives and, in particular, mr juncker, to be present at the negotiations in order to ensure that the proposals put forward are in line with the acquis communautaire and that the final solution is guided by the fundamental principles and values of the european union. if the two leaders - i welcome the appointment of mustafa akinci as leader of the turkish cypriots - reach an agreement on the internal aspect of the cyprus problem, then the pressure on turkey must be increased on issues that concern turkey itself, namely guarantees and the army. member state does not need guarantees and intervention rights; and the army with the solution must withdraw immediately. the report makes positive references to cyprus, the kurdish question, human rights in turkey. but we do not agree with the opening of the funds in question. i thank mrs piri for the high level of political civilization she has shown during all the discussions of the representatives of the political groups with her. the solution will send a bright message both within and outside the european union. and that's the message i think the old continent needs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'blue card' in the directive. i would like to ask the following because he has spoken of the timing of turkey's accession to the european union. if he really wants to do so, it would be better to open a 'highway' to turkey, to ask erdogan to withdraw the turkish occupation troops from the european territory of the republic of cyprus, to support a solution based on the principles and values of the community acquis. that is why we are in the european union. this will show that we have political differences but that above all of us are the rules of law of the european union. what's your opinion on that? (the speaker wishes to put a question with a blue card to mr ska keller)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order to open the chapter, turkey must first sign and ratify the convention on the law of the sea, recognize the republic of cyprus and respect its sovereign rights. the resolution criticises developments in turkey, but the european union must insist on the need to implement all the copenhagen criteria and turkey's contractual obligations, first and foremost, for the benefit of the turkish people themselves. we welcome calls on turkey to begin the withdrawal of the occupying army from cyprus, to support the work of the plo, to implement un security council resolution 550 on the sandbox and the additional protocol and, in particular, to contribute constructively to the solution of the cyprus problem, on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation with one sovereignty, one nationality and one international personality. we are also insisting on the need for an immediate end to settlement and the demilitarisation of cyprus.
s & d) and the madam president, relations between the european union and turkey are at a crucial juncture where it must be clear whether the turkish government really wants to become a member of the european family. the lies, the tactics and the expediency must end and the message from the european union must be clear. the european union is also calling on turkey to take all necessary measures to ensure that the peace process in the region is not disrupted. the withdrawal of turkish occupation troops from cyprus, recognition of the republic of cyprus, respect for the freedoms and rights of turkish citizens themselves, the solution of the kurdish problem, and alignment with the principles and values of the european union must be a one-way street for turkey. we want turkey in the european union as a force for peace and stability and not as a factor of instability and disorder that creates problems in the region.
the commission the report on turkey is unacceptable because it marginalizes the republic of cyprus and exposes it to serious risks, disconnects the cypriot issue from the accession process, promotes the opening of funds without turkey having fulfilled its obligations towards the republic of cyprus and the union, promotes the deepening of the customs union without turkey having implemented the additional protocol and refuses to include in the paragraph on cyprus the statement of 21 september which is an integral part of the acquis communautaire and which expressly states that the european union recognises the republic of cyprus, which was admitted to the union as an island state on the basis of article 10, as a member state. it also allows turkey to participate in the foreign and defence councils and promotes the opening of the capital for security while the turkish army still occupies cyprus and the turkish fleet violates our seas on a daily basis. if the european parliament votes in favour of the report, it will expose the republic of cyprus to the immediate danger of being dissolved and turned into a turkish protectorate, and will turn this protectorate into a trojan horse for the european union to be flooded with fanatical islamists. the european parliament has no competence to define the state form of the solution to the cyprus problem and, therefore, the promotion of a specific solution, which legitimizes the ongoing war crime being carried out by turkey against cyprus, exposes the european union to serious risks. the european parliament has a moral obligation to ensure that the solution is governed by the principles and values of the european union and guarantees the human rights of the cypriot people. as for the refugees that turkey is protecting, let us consider how many millions of refugees the turkish army and the turkish state itself are responsible for. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
ppe), the answer is "blue card". i have said many times that we would like a democratic, progressive and modern neighbour who protects - since it has as much power as turkey has - all the small peoples around it. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam, and it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam. that is why it is not proceeding with democratic processes and changes that would allow us to feel safe. if you feel safe with this turkey which does not respect even its own people and violates basic human rights, then what can i say? i have nothing more to say. we would like a democratic turkey in the european union to make us feel better and safer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mrs bildt, how do you assess turkey's attitude to apply the readmission agreement with the 27 member states but not with the republic of cyprus which it characterizes with the insulting term, which i prefer not to translate from turkish, and how do you assess the fact that cypriot citizens are not allowed to be issued visas unless they admit that they come from this greek cypriot administration of the south as the republic of cyprus is characterized? and you know that the european union recognises the republic of cyprus.
the commission if we really wanted to be honest, objective and credible today, we would all say with one voice that turkey is 'taking a step forward' and failing the examination in its assessment for the european union. because i believe there is no progress here, and i invite anyone to point out even a small step that has been made on the capital issues. turkey continues to disregard and fail to implement the ankara protocol, which is a direct insult and challenge to all the member states of the european union. turkey continues to disregard international law and the law of the sea; continues to violate rights both inside and outside turkey; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. i believe that the possibility of opening funds for turkey is a challenge but at the same time a reward for turkey and any incentive to improve the country today will be lost. i must point out, however, that there is a genuine dialogue under way at the moment to resolve the cyprus problem, and i call on the european union, the european parliament and everyone to contribute so that a just and lasting solution to the cyprus problem can be found, as is also stated in the positive element of the report on the reunification of cyprus, the immediate return of the city of famagusta, the application of human rights, the application of the principles and values of the european union which turkey has not adopted and has not respected as it should have.
s & d) and the madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mrs kati piri, for her work, which has been far from easy. however, i will summarize, because i am probably one of the last speakers, the common finding of almost everyone, starting from my right and going all the way to the other end of the hemisphere. the only conclusion is that in this report on turkey's progress, there is virtually no progress! and the question, my dear colleagues, to which we must all answer is this: the process that has brought us here, and i am addressing my dear colleague, mr van orden, is the process that began ten years ago, when the republic of cyprus did something that many would never do: the european union, with one third of its territory occupied by turkey, has decided to give turkey a date for opening accession negotiations, in agreement with all the member states in our family in the european union. and that's where we are today. i wonder, then, if there is no other method than continuing to open up capital to push turkey in the right direction? that is the question mr van orden and please do not call the occupant back.
gue/ngl), in writing. we disagree with the terms of the acer mandate and in particular with the implementation of the third energy package. the aim is to strengthen the single market, a position which we disagree with, since the policies to strengthen competition in the single market promote the interests of monopolies and multinationals. the transfer of powers from national or independent authorities to acer's jurisdiction may be detrimental to the interests of the people. in the energy market in general, and even more so in the energy market, state control is very important and must play a strong regulatory role. however, in this case the request for an increase in funding concerns the need to meet the existing needs to pay salaries to existing acer staff and to recruit new staff in order to discharge existing staff. for these reasons we have decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the current geostrategic developments in the south-east of the eu and in the mediterranean create conditions of instability which directly or indirectly affect the eu itself. new data and critical developments in the eu's neighbourhood require the eu and its member states to make the most of the opportunities offered by the csdp in conjunction with the tools offered by the eu's external policy. strengthening the cfsp through increased funding, coordinating member states and strengthening the european will to shield the cfsp against new challenges must become a top priority for all. that to date, csdp civilian and military operations suffer from deficiencies and weaknesses that lead to ineffective missions. european integration is achieved through the integrated csf that the eu must develop. there is a huge scope and potential through the development and strengthening of the csdp in the eu. i believe that the eu has a duty to be able to develop its own defence and security policy while safeguarding the sovereign rights of its member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the security of citizens in the member states and, by extension, the eu as a whole is a very important factor in their well-being. this security can be achieved through cooperation and confidence-building between states. unfortunately, this report supports military missions and tries to give them efficiency and benefits that do not exist. it also insists on a close and fully identical relationship with nato at all levels. the ultimate aim of the report is to develop the eu militarily so that it can intervene (in full coordination with nato and the us). the report also calls on member states to increase military spending to 2% of gdp, while in the midst of an economic crisis, neoliberal policies of harsh austerity are being promoted and many funds absolutely necessary for social development - such as education - are being cut. we express our opposition to the report and call, among other things, for the eu to disarm (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu must be able to take a more active role in the international community, and the eu must be able to play a more active role in the world.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, the report calls for an increase in the funds for the implementation of the csdp objectives to further stabilise the eu, a position with which we strongly disagree. in addition, the report calls for the strengthening of the increase in interventions, the integration of preventive actions in the eu strategy and the strengthening of the eu's association with nato, positions which we also find to be diametrically opposed to. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. we believe that the eu has no right to intervene in the internal affairs of any country in the interests of its own powerful people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for these reasons we voted against the report and tabled a minority motion which calls, among other things, for the radical disarmament (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) of the eu and of the world. no military funding from the eu budget, non-military peaceful approaches to conflict resolution and strict separation of the eu from nato.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the ladies and gentlemen, the g-7 summit will discuss fiscal policies to deal with the crisis. but as long as the blind adherence to the neo-liberal policies of harsh austerity continues, not only will there be no growth but unemployment, poverty and the impoverishment of the people will continue to increase. the concentration of ever-increasing wealth in the hands of a handful of people must be stopped, as this is the root cause of economic crises that drive countries into bankruptcy and people into poverty while big multinational corporations increase their profits. the first thing to do is to tackle in practice the public debt which has been imposed on the peoples by means of policies of dependence and which is being increased by memorandum policies. the neoliberal management of the market is leading to a dead end of recession and crisis. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. otherwise, no country will be able to break out of the vicious circle of crisis.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the there is an urgent need for greater coordination and synergy between the milk distribution system and the school fruit promotion system in order to ensure a coherent approach to nutrition and greater efficiency. however, we have reservations about the way the systems are implemented. we believe that the systems can and should be improved, particularly in terms of promoting local and traditional products, but also in terms of flexibility and efficiency in the use of resources, as it is found that more funds are spent on advertising than on the products themselves. for the above reasons we have decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i believe that full equality between men and women at all levels should be a permanent concern and objective for the european parliament. we must devise and implement a strategy to complete this effort for all eu member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the phenomena of violations of women's rights, whether at the workplace or at the state level, must disappear and the eu must identify these violations and call for strict compliance by the member countries.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, some of my colleagues seem to me to feel too comfortable in the comfort and security of this parliament to formulate ideas for solving a problem based more on emotions aroused by history than on logic and realism. whether we like it or not, russia and the european union are neighbours and there must be immediate action by both russia and the european union to move us in the direction of balance and agreement, cooperation and realism. we call on the european union and russia to immediately stop the actions which are creating tensions in their relations, because this is above all annoying the peoples, the populations, the citizens. thousands of people are being killed in the streets and in their homes. sanctions are not helping in this direction and should be abandoned. the economic war is victimizing the peoples of the region. our continent can't take any more tension. we want a europe of cooperation and solidarity, a europe that says no to confrontation and war. the report we are being asked to discuss, however, unfortunately does not build bridges in this direction but, on the contrary, perpetuates the climate of the cold war and the contradictions. (the president accepted to answer a question by "blue card" (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the truth is that i did not understand the question, but much more i do not understand why it is addressed to me. it is a question addressed to russia. i don't represent russia here, what can i say?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we welcome the fact that the eu is taking the initiative to create a reserve for crises in the agricultural sector with the aim of providing additional support to farmers in cases of severe crises affecting agricultural production. the fact that a significant amount of around eur 450 million is set for 2016 demonstrates the eu's political determination to shield the agricultural sector. i believe that the agricultural sector is very important for the social and economic cohesion of the eu and for the prospect of stimulating growth. the eu can play a leading role in primary production, provided that it continues to provide valuable and significant support to the rural sector. i believe that the agricultural sector can become the engine of european development if there is strategic support and substantial investment in georgia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the design of social policies, and especially in times of crisis, direct benefits must play an important role. the provisions of this regulation are therefore important in protecting small and mediumsized enterprises from the effects of the neoliberal policies being implemented, which are deepening the crisis and, through market liberalisation, are intensifying the attacks on them by large enterprises. that is why we are opposed to the reduction in direct aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore voted against the report, which proposes direct aid.
in writing. ‒ the right to equal treatment is a fundamental right recognised in the treaties of the european union and it is essential for the further development of its societies. however, for a large part it only exists on paper. women still continue to experience domestic violence, wage inequality and workplace discrimination. according to a fra survey published in 2014, the female employment rate is 63%, whereas the gender pay gap stands at 16.4 % for the eu. in addition, women’s participation in the labour market does not always translate into influence and positions of power. women make up only 37% of members of the european parliament, 15.6% of bank ceos and 37% of supreme court judges. finally, one in three women have reported some form of physical or sexual abuse since the age of 15. ms noichl’s report manages to address and exposes these issues by breaking down survey findings by gender and proposes effective, coherent strategies to do away with all forms of discrimination against women and men. for example, amongst others it calls on the commission to adopt a strengthened approach to prevent all forms of gender-based violence. therefore, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the for both the european united left/northern green left and akel, equality between women and men is of fundamental importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the main points of disagreement are the introduction of mandatory gender quotas across the whole labour market. for us, the quota is a half-measure, because in this way the real reasons for the non-participation of women in management positions (which have to do with the patriarchal structures of society, but also with the deregulation of the labour market) are not addressed. however, we fully agree with the text on the points concerning equal treatment of women in the labour market, the fight against violence and gender-based violence, and measures to be taken with regard to parental leave and the improvement of opportunities for women with regard to their leave and employment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the since parliament sees the safeguarding of intellectual property rights as the first step towards gaining access to third country markets, we could not vote in favour of this report. our position as both the etuc/bpa and the acp is against intellectual property rights, which are more about safeguarding the rights of large companies than helping development in third countries. the speculation of large european pharmaceutical companies at the expense of public health in developing countries is one such example, and the report does not deal with it in any way. we have therefore voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are certainly in favour of protecting copyright and safeguarding intellectual property. however, we cannot vote against a proposal for an eu action plan which states that intellectual property rights must guarantee the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries and other business sectors. we also disagree with the approach that enforcement of intellectual property rights must be used for the smooth functioning of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, despite the improvements made in the report, there are important omissions and problematic references which we cannot ignore. we consider energy to be a social development asset to which we must all have equal access and responsibility. the first priority must therefore be to combat energy poverty. to achieve this, neoliberal austerity policies must be ended and policies to support social development and strengthened state control promoted. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the proposal for the commission to be obliged to take part in the negotiations on intergovernmental agreements and the ex ante and ex post evaluation of these agreements is particularly negative in the text. the gue will not support the promotion of an energy policy which is controlled by the commission, limits the sovereignty of states and reduces national flexibility in shaping multi-dimensional and efficient international energy relations. the commission cannot even ask for increased powers when there are serious problems with the energy supply of the member states and when the energy isolation of many member states and regions from the large energy networks of the union continues. to address these problems, we welcome the proposals to exploit indigenous gas energy sources in the eastern mediterranean and to create a mediterranean gas hub by developing lng, in order to exploit the potential created in the region for the energy security of the union. the european union must also support the efforts of a member state, cyprus, to exploit its mineral resources, especially now that the aphrodite deposit has been declared commercially viable, we are talking about 140 pcm, it is important for the european union to finance, but also to provide technical support for the implementation of the necessary infrastructure. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, do you not think that in order to finally be able to draw up an integrated energy strategy, the european union should not only focus on the mediterranean and the eastern mediterranean, where there are proven energy reserves, but at the same time the european union should start investing in energy infrastructure, particularly in the eastern mediterranean, using cyprus, greece and israel, but also other countries which seem to have the opportunity and the potential to become an energy enabler for the european union?
gue/ngl), answer to a question with a blue card. madam president, i would first like to say that this is important and we thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who accepted our amendment. it is important to look at the union's domestic resources, particularly those in the eastern mediterranean, but also how we create infrastructure. i spoke about the isolation of the member states and, while the objective has been set that by 2015 this isolation should be ended, there are still member states, such as cyprus, malta and other island regions, which are isolated. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
the commission madam president, i think it is an undeniable fact that the european union is really energy dependent and that it has a constant economic bleeding from the energy sector of some 400 billion euros a year, which is really shocking. how do we respond to this challenge? there are solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second reliable and important solution is for the european union to exploit its own energy sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is for this reason that if the european union really has the political will and determination to open up energy corridors and solve the problem of energy dependence and costs, it must invest in energy infrastructure and - i am also awaiting a reply from the commissioner on this subject - in the eastern mediterranean, cyprus, greece, israel, but we are also telling any other country that it has the opportunity and the capacity to offer energy resources, which are european energy resources and we must exploit them here and now and not tomorrow.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we welcome the proposal for a council decision providing the basis for the conclusion of the doha amendment by the european union and setting the conditions for the joint fulfilment of the eu's obligations. the case for reducing greenhouse gas emissions concerns us all, because it affects the health and quality of life of all citizens of the planet. eu member states commit to reduce and limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of emissions. this commitment was set on the basis of the total greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package. i believe that we all have a responsibility towards the deterioration of climate conditions and we must respond to the call and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by all means.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the protection of the environment must be strengthened. in this context, the legislative proposal for the formal ratification by the european union of the second commitment period (2013-2020) provided for in the kyoto protocol on climate change is helpful in this regard. in particular, reducing combined greenhouse gas emissions will improve the lives of citizens in many countries. it is also positive that the commitments are based on the differentiated responsibility of the states, according to their capabilities. the decisive step towards improving environmental conditions will be taken when neoliberal policies are ended and the anarchic development and the over-exploitation of the environment by the big multinational corporations for profit are stopped. in the meantime, we shall support any appropriate efforts to improve environmental conditions. that is why we voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the reducing combined greenhouse gas emissions with the ultimate aim of reducing the increasingly severe climate change is a positive step towards improving environmental conditions. it is clear to us that environmental destruction is caused mainly by the lawless activity of large corporations, which, in order to maximize their profits, sacrifice the environment, transferring the burdens (social, economic, etc.) to the people. the eu must first of all change course, stop promoting neoliberal policies and put barriers in the way of the free market if it is to take real steps towards improving environmental conditions. we also consider it important that the eu member states, and all states in general, take concrete action, according to their particular circumstances and capabilities, to put an end to the violent exploitation of the environment. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ 'the european union, which is currently in an energy stalemate, has the potential and the opportunity to exploit cyprus and its natural resources in the eastern mediterranean. in this way the eu serves both its energy objectives and its geostrategic interests . in addition, it will be able to exploit the energy axis cyprus-greece-israel which has enormous energy potential where europe can really benefit from energy and gain access to both the eastern mediterranean and the middle east. it is very important and necessary to include cyprus and the eastern mediterranean in the eu's energy plans. the eu must also move swiftly with energy investments in the eastern mediterranean region, making use of the eu's 315 billion euro investment plan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. it will also reduce energy costs, reduce energy dependence while increasing investment and creating new jobs.'
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the strategy proposed for energy security is essentially a strategy of private interests and exacerbates inequalities and exclusions. the gue/ngl is choosing a different path of real development, where energy is a public social good to which everyone must have equal and cheap access. we consider equally important the need to ensure stronger state control, to invest in public infrastructure and to promote international cooperation, based on mutual benefit, parity and solidarity. all of this is missing from the report. the report also contains a number of problematic references. for example, it proposed the compulsory participation of the commission in the negotiations of intergovernmental agreements and the ex ante and ex post evaluation of agreements under negotiation. these proposals limit the sovereignty of states and reduce national flexibility in shaping multi-dimensional and efficient international energy relations. the report also fails to address the problem of energy poverty and promotes the use of nuclear energy, which poses enormous risks to man and the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are clearly against undemocratic policies and policies that violate the rights and dignity of people. we therefore condemn the undemocratic policies of the hungarian governments, such as the death penalty and anti-immigrant policies. however, for us, the constitution of each country, which has emerged from its particular circumstances and has been approved by its people, is superior to the eu institutions and bodies, which are neither elected nor have their policies been approved by the people. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. for the above reasons we have decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the progress report on turkey is only in name a progress report, since in reality turkey is going backwards in all areas related to the principles and values of both the european union and international law. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament recently adopted a resolution condemning turkey for unacceptable violations of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus . the european parliament also adopted a resolution against turkey and the occupying army of cyprus on the issue of missing persons and the movement of the bones of missing persons from the occupied village of assia. the european parliament also adopted a resolution condemning turkey's human rights violations and its unacceptable attitude towards the armenian genocide. turkey has not only disregarded the decisions of the european parliament, but has reacted in a particularly contemptuous manner to the european parliament in a derogatory and disrespectful manner. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam.
in writing. ‒ the resolution regarding the recent high-level corruption cases in fifa manages to capture the importance of sports in society by underlining its key role in promoting peace, solidarity and social inclusion. moreover it takes into account its significance as a large and fast-growing sector of the eu economy which makes an important contribution to growth and jobs. the allegations of corruption in fifa bring about devastating consequences for the reputation of the sport and profoundly stigmatise it. considering the influence of football in society, these could lead to a negative impact on the daily lives of millions of people. to combat this, the resolution urges fifa’s executive committee to implement structural reforms in order to create transparency and accountability. for example, it proposes the implementation of strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for its management and executive committee, as well as an independent monitoring body. along with this, the introduction of term limits for members of fifa’s executive committee is considered essential to restore its credibility. furthermore, it calls on the member states to enhance european law enforcement cooperation through joint investigation teams and cooperation between prosecution authorities. therefore, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. we have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report as a positive step towards tackling corruption in football. however, we cannot ignore the fact that the procedure is being carried out in cooperation with the authorities of the united states, which have different laws. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. the report also refers to the stockholm programme, which we disagree with, because it aims to harmonize and homogenize national legislation, strengthen existing repressive mechanisms and create new ones, i.e. measures that restrict and endanger democratic rights and popular freedoms.
s & d) and the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, it is an innovative tool. it is also innovative for ideological reasons, because it finally combines public intervention with money and guarantees on the one hand and private initiative on the other. i wonder whether there would be people in this european parliament who would feel the same way if mr juncker had not adopted and promoted it. i come now to the third and perhaps most important point of my intervention. it has been rightly said that this text has created a framework which excludes political criteria in the selection of investment projects. i know of a country, our member state, cyprus, which is threatened by a third country and has energy resources. we shall see in practice, if indeed they are not influenced by politics... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european fund for strategic investments is still a flawed project. a fireworks display that, instead of promoting growth and public investment in the real economy, transfers the risk of investment to the already austerity-stricken state budget, and even to taxpayers, while leveraging the profits for private capital. so while the collateral and the losses will be socialized, the profit will be privatized. even this meagre public investment will be financed by cuts in other programmes. three parties three billion from the connecting europe programme, two parties seven billion from horizon 2020. the gue has disagreed and disagrees with this logic. the people of europe need pure public investment in the real economy, which will ensure new, decent and secure jobs, as well as social and economic development. the people of europe need an end to austerity policies, to the politics of memoranda.
s & d) and the i am sure that the rapporteur has worked very hard because it is a text with many compromises. so it is a question of common rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but there are also many things that do not satisfy us, and because i have heard many colleagues here today talking about rules that should have been applied and should be applied, i shall speak to you in the remainder of my time about rules that have not been applied, and let us be honest. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not been able to demonstrate that the cypriot authorities have been able to comply with the requirements of the banking code. was it impartial the way in which the restructuring of greece's public debt was implemented to save some big german and french banks? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the criminalisation of political and trade union action for workers' rights is a practice that harms the republic. during his hearing in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, mep zarianopoulos demonstrated the political nature of his persecution by providing irrefutable evidence that the protest demonstration for which he is accused and the reading of a few minutes of strike announcement were carried out with the agreement of journalists, without disturbing the smooth operation of the station in the least. the persecution of the workers is directed against the struggle for workers' rights, against the workers themselves, since it criminalizes their actions, but ultimately also against the republic itself. we could not possibly support such a practice. we therefore voted against the motion for the waiver of immunity, in the belief that the unfounded accusations and prosecutions against the kke mep will be dropped.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the new european commission, under the leadership of president juncker, together with the hard work and intensive work of the european parliament, with the two main rapporteurs, jose manuel fernandes and udo bullmann, who deserve our congratulations, have managed in record time to draw up an investment plan aimed at a sum of eur 315 billion, and is trying to create new economic data in europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the juncker investment plan aims to tackle unemployment by creating thousands of new jobs and creating growth prospects. without exaggeration, with restrained optimism and with confidence in the european commission's new major investment initiative, we expect it to successfully achieve its goals of growth, employment and competitiveness, which are also our goals, in our small home, cyprus. we have therefore given our full support to this important initiative of the european parliament and the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments is a flawed project, which, instead of promoting growth and public investment in the real economy, transfers the risk of investment to already-austerity-stricken member states and taxpayers, while leveraging the gains for private capital. so while the guarantees and losses will be socialized, the profit will be privatized. even this meagre public investment will be used by cuts from other programmes, such as €3.3 billion from connecting europe and €2.7 billion from horizon 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i believe that it is necessary to support the commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide technical assistance of 630,000. it is known that under the erdf operating regulation, the maximum annual budget available is eur 150 million per year. 0.5% of this amount, amounting to some eur 800 000, is to be allocated to technical assistance. in view of the fact that the commission proposes only eur 630 000, i.e. only 0.39% of the total amount, which is below the 0.5% allowed, and also in view of the fact that the european parliament has repeatedly pointed out the need to give the egf greater prominence as a union instrument of solidarity with the workers made redundant, we consider technical assistance to be of the utmost importance. the amount will be used for financial instruments for preparation, monitoring, data collection and knowledge base building. it will also be channelled to administrative and technical support and information and communication activities as well as control, inspection and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund regulation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we must recognise that the prevention of excessive deficit and debt levels, as well as macroeconomic imbalances and the coordination of economic policies, are at the heart of the economic governance system. the question for us is whether the emu is finally sufficiently shielded and effective to prevent member states from being derailed by excessive debt and deficits. the success or failure of emu in the crucial question of convergence of the economies of the member states is also an important factor. we consider the economic governance framework to be a key policy initiative supporting the foundations of the europe 2020 objectives. we support initiatives that promote the full exploitation of the single market's untapped activities. we support all the measures proposed by the european commission to finance the new european fund for strategic investments.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, the report insists on the continuation of the neoliberal policies of severe austerity, even though, as has been shown in practice, they are increasingly aggravating the economic crisis, increasing inequalities and leading people to unemployment, poverty and misery. in the same context, the economic integration, the deepening of the stability and growth pact and the fiscal union proposed in the report will be disastrous for the peoples. we believe that each country should pursue its own policy, taking account of the particular circumstances of each country and the needs of society and its people. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european union is able to play a leading role in the negotiations on the future of the union. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the in view of bettina michelle jakobsen's considerable qualifications and background, i consider that she is qualified to fulfil her duties as a member of the court of auditors. so i vote in favour of the new appointment.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this report is important as it concerns an amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the world trade organisation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i consider the approach adopted in the debate on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the approval by the european union of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana to be correct, and i vote in favour.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is important to note that the main elements of this surplus are a positive result in revenue of eur 1,183 billion, an unspent amount in expenditure of eur 142 million, and exchange rate differences of eur 110 million. we note that this draft amending budget, as submitted by the commission, concerns only the budgetary integration of the surplus generated in 2014, i.e. an amount of eur 1,435 billion. we are disappointed that the council has not kept its commitments to countries in emergency which meet the conditions for mobilising the eusf.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in relation to two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, floods in bulgaria in july-august 2014 and floods in italy in october-november 2014. the amount of aid applications is approximately eur 56 million. we stress our basic position that there is always an urgent need to release financial aid through the eaggf to countries affected by natural disasters and that the eaggf must show solidarity with them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is important that the commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund to cover countries such as bulgaria, romania and italy which have suffered natural disasters. romania submitted two requests for floods, bulgaria submitted one request for floods, and italy also submitted a request for floods. the total proposed mobilisation of the eipf is eur 66 505 850. the fund shall not exceed eur 550 million.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the resolution proposal to provide an integrated ticketing system for multi-modal travel in europe effectively facilitates the mobility and movement of eu citizens and visitors from third countries and consequently the exercise of their fundamental freedoms, while at the same time boosting tourism and thus the economy. they also facilitate the provision of information which takes account of travellers with disabilities or reduced mobility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ approved on the basis of rule 197 of the rules of procedure.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ regarding the council's position on the draft amending budget, and taking into account that it aims to transfer the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments and to ensure the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations, i consider my positive support to be well received.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ taking into account that the objective of draft amending budget no 5/2015 is to increase the union's resources to be able to manage the flows of migrants and refugees following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in migration flows by an amount of eur 69 652 000, we support this effort positively.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the russian ban on european dairy products since august 2014 has had a negative impact on dairy products in the eu internal market. it is therefore necessary to adopt a package of measures for the milk sector which will enable member states to introduce support measures to help producers. i note that the dairy farmers will be even weaker if there is no support programme . for these reasons , i 'm in favor of a positive .
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ noting that public-private partnerships are the convergence of two worlds providing services and infrastructure of general interest through enhanced private sector participation rather than through privatisation processes. we also stress that private investment and financing appear to be the driving force behind sustainable development, which in developing countries is estimated to be around 5% in the coming years. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly calls on the commission to consider contributing to mutual funds that would be eligible as crisis prevention and management measures, in order to provide greater protection to farmers at times of market crises leading to a significant drop in income. we also stress that producers should not bear the cost of crises caused by events unrelated to the agricultural sector, such as the ban imposed by russia on eu exports, which has seriously affected many european fruit and vegetable producers. so we're settling with a yes vote.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, it is a contradiction to promote the deregulation of industrial relations and neoliberal policies of austerity and memoranda on the one hand and to discuss the social aspects of the european semester or employment guidelines in the same context on the other. the commission's employment guidelines, which are part of the european semester, are far from giving a minimum of social dimension to the european semester process, let alone actually promoting decent employment. we thank our colleague laura agea for her work and for the positive references in the report. our positions as leftists were clear from the beginning: we do not understand employment without social security, without decent wages, without job security and without a guarantee of the right to collective bargaining. it does not include employment which does not ensure a decent living for the workers. the wage dumping in germany and the 300 and 400 euro wages in greece and the other countries of the south are nothing but a clear attack on the dignity of workers' lives. the result is the impoverishment and misery of the peoples of the european union. in the direction of improving the working and living conditions of workers we have tabled amendments in the house which ensure at least a safety net for the minimum guaranteed income and we call on colleagues to vote in favour. as gue we will continue to fight with the trade unions and the mass popular movement for the right to work and for decent and quality jobs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr prime minister, the luxembourg presidency will be called upon to deal with many problems which are currently besetting the peoples of europe. but what europe needs most today is solidarity and the promotion of a strategy of progressive politics and social development towards a europe of democracy and social justice. the luxembourg presidency must act as a guardian of the balance of the member states and of the sovereignty of the states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek people have, of course, given the appropriate response with courage and determination, with a resounding no on sunday. we therefore expect the new presidency to promote social development policies that will give a boost to the real economy. we cannot continue to promote neo-liberal policies of severe austerity, which perpetuate recession, inflate public debt, and lead to unemployment and the impoverishment of the people. finally, mr prime minister, on immigration policy we expect to see measures based on international law, solidarity and human rights. the first thing to do is to strengthen the mechanisms for rescuing people and, of course, to support the member states with measures to ensure that the burden is shared equally between the member states, in accordance with their gdp and their population.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i want you to know that i've heard a lot of things here that have caused me sadness, because some of them are not sincere. they often play games communicatively that only the extreme left or the extreme right supports you. but i want you to know that you will have the support of the great political group of the socialists and democrats if you too take a step forward and help us to empower you. stay in the eurozone, proposing something very specific. i now turn to the president of the european commission, mr juncker, whose vision of a united europe i do not doubt: europe without greece is not europe. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the central philosophy of the report is that an eu-us trade agreement should give european companies access to the us market, but at the same time should not undermine eu standards. it is also important that we call for a more transparent procedure, strong labour rights and protection of personal data and public services. we have been positive about continuing the talks which should lead to a balanced agreement to the mutual benefit and in particular to the benefit of the peoples of the eu.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the draft council decision and the draft protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union,directs its president to forward parliament's position to the council, the commission, and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of serbia;
in writing. ‒ welcomes and supports the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the government of the republic of india.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, linking the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ correctly on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, asks the commission to submit a new proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or to replace it with a new text.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ very rightly, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers, it asks the commission to submit a new proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or to replace them with a new text.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we agree with the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the swiss confederation, on the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and on the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements the 'horizon 2020' programme;
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i support the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, in which it asks to be consulted again if the council intends to make substantial amendments to the commission proposal.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we agree to the mobilisation of the european adaptation fund in the 2015 budget, amounting to eur 1 365 000, for finland. the application concerns 500 of the 568 workers laid off by broadcom and two of the suppliers or producers of the next stages of the product.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we agree and support the inclusion of the european fund for strategic investments in the 2016 draft budget and, in particular, the mobilisation of the overall commitment margin to cover part of the costs required to finance the efsi, amounting to eur 8 billion, instead of applying cuts exclusively to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, and parliament rightly sought to minimise the impact on these two programmes and with the agreement reached to further limit the cuts by eur 1 billion.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the green growth initiative, stressing that the transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can lead to opportunities for new quality jobs and opportunities to transform existing employment into green jobs in almost all sectors, as well as new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution setting maximum permitted levels of radiation in food and feed following a nuclear accident or in the event of an emergency radiation hazard.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is a good approach to take that, while the us, for example, has recovered more quickly from the economic crisis than the eu, partly due to the greater diversification of the financial system, the eu needs to create a genuinely own capital markets union, which can draw on experiences from other parts of the world in order to ensure compatibility between european and international financial markets.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is very important to stress that threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex, unconventional and international, evolving rapidly and difficult to predict, thus exceeding the capabilities of any individual member state, and that they therefore require more than ever a coherent, integrated, multi-layered and coordinated response from the eu as a whole, but taking full account of respect for fundamental rights.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we consider that the current crisis in yemen is a consequence of the failure of successive governments to meet the legitimate expectations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. we therefore express grave concern at the deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen and call on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease the use of force.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i agree with the resolution's position that there is a need to review eu action in the middle east and north africa region in the light of the consequences of the arab uprisings in those countries and the newly created complex situation. we believe that the middle east and north africa are in a state of geopolitical turmoil which is likely to bring about profound and unforeseeable changes in regional balances.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ as the neighbourhood is currently undergoing a realignment due to the increasing number of long-standing and new security challenges and the fact that it is less stable and less secure and is facing a much deeper economic crisis than when the european neighbourhood policy was launched, we support the position that the revised policy should be based on mutual accountability and a common commitment to eu values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the existence of effective and transparent public institutions, and that the eu should continue to promote the process of transition in all countries as well as democracy and the rule of law, human rights and the rule of law.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the eu 's new approach to human rights and democracy and the evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its establishment . we consider it right to support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universal and indivisible human rights and fundamental freedoms which are among the primary objectives of the eu's foreign policy, in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the reasoning of the resolution which, among other things, expresses deep concern at the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the wider region. at the same time, we agree to put an immediate end to violence and intimidation against political opponents and to disarm armed youth groups affiliated to political parties. the european union also expresses its solidarity with the victims of the violence and the relatives of the dead, and calls for immediate humanitarian assistance for those who have been forced to flee their homes.
mr president, i will speak against this and say that, as you yourself have said, under the rules of procedure, the house decides to change the name of a delegation on the recommendation of the conference of presidents. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i don't want to go into the substance, but it is known that since 2013, throughout the whole range of its relations, the european union uses the term "palestine" and not "palestinian authority". thank you, sir.
i think that there is very little to add to what the honourable member has said. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we have a series of conflicts and wars on almost all fronts bordering on turkey, and we have a conflict with the kurds in particular, which is a repetition of the bloody affair of previous years and poses very great dangers for all the citizens of turkey, but unfortunately also for all the peoples of the region. i would also like to stress that, unfortunately, this whole affair is unfolding in this way because mr erdogan wants, through the insecurity created among the turkish people, to turn them back to his party in a possible new electoral contest. i think it is a great pity that, firstly, nobody sees this and, secondly, that parliament is not holding a debate on this issue in order to put forward its views and possibly push mr erdogan in the right direction, if that is possible. thank you, sir.
madam president, we are discussing a very important subject in the light of the excellent report by an excellent colleague who has touched the problem to its very heart. after what he said, we don't have to contribute and add much. the key word is 'efficiency' and we understand what this means if we consider the problem of 50 million operations which are checks, costing 4 billion euros and which essentially correspond to 7% of the money we give for the common agricultural policy. in other words, out of every 100 euros we give, 7 euros go exclusively to checks. if we are not prepared to make use of this important report and to tackle the problem at its root, then the agricultural economy will also suffer, and our farmers will suffer, and the bureaucracy that kills all prospects and all development will again be the winner. it is therefore an opportunity to support our farmers by removing the administrative burden and giving - i will put forward an innovative proposal - the possibility of self-regulation in the agricultural sector.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the rapporteur, mr joão ferreira, was unfortunately unable to be with us today, and i shall therefore present the main objectives of this report on his behalf. first of all, the report takes account of the commission's report 'innovation in the blue economy: harnessing the potential of our seas and oceans to boost jobs and growth', a document which has a lot of room for improvement, as it has a limited scope and does not cover all sectors. the following new elements are therefore added: - expresses dissatisfaction with the short- and long-term impact on national research programmes of cuts in public investment in research, development and innovation; - calls for the results of publicly funded research to be public property for non-commercial purposes, and believes that this principle should be binding on partners in union research programmes; - rejects the commission's proposed cuts to the budget of the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. the proper development of the blue economy requires decent blue-collar jobs and the creation of quality jobs with rights. the report therefore urges the commission and the member states to mainstream the gender dimension at all stages of the development of the blue economy and to encourage and strengthen the effective participation of women in it. the commission is invited to identify all the european funds available to finance blue economy activities and to bring them together in a single platform, accessible to all citizens. it is also stressed that the commission should provide funding for innovation and blue growth to finance basic research, vocational training, job creation, start-ups, smes, social economy enterprises, cooperatives, education, poverty reduction in coastal areas, biotechnology development, transport links, energy interconnection, coastal access to broadband services, environmental protection and the commercialisation of innovative products, services and partnerships. investments in the blue economy should focus on, among other things, eco-innovation, resource efficiency, the circular economy, nature conservation, protection of the marine and coastal environment, climate change mitigation and adaptation and sustainable use of resources. the report therefore calls on the commission to incorporate these principles into existing and future support programmes. equally important is the establishment of an appropriate financial framework to stimulate innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and job creation. this framework will combine, coordinate and facilitate access to available financial instruments, structural and investment funds, public institutions, local authorities, but also businesses, in particular smes, and non-governmental organisations, in order to raise awareness of existing opportunities. it is important to underline that public investment plays a key role in promoting the development and realising the full potential of the blue economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. public or majority state-owned companies also play a very important role in sectors such as merchant shipping, port management, shipbuilding and maritime and coastal protection projects. we therefore reject the emphasis on the private sector alone. the report contains all these points and we call on our colleagues to vote in favour of it, so as to strengthen the european policy on the blue economy.
madam president, for me europe is synonymous with culture and cultural heritage and i believe that europe should be and should remain the custodian of the entire european cultural heritage. i come from a country, cyprus, whose cultural and religious treasures, of inestimable and untold value, have been looted for forty-one years and are now being smuggled, even into europe, in the hands of smugglers. cyprus is part of the european cultural and religious heritage. it is rightly called the isle of saints. thousands of churches, thousands of monuments, thousands of years of religious culture and antiquity have been destroyed and have now become commodities within europe itself. when you rob an antiquities museum, you commit a crime. when you destroy a country's culture, you are committing a crime of consolidation. i expect the commission, to whom i have addressed myself on many occasions, to take action and to establish a legislative framework for the automatic repatriation of antiquities smuggled into europe. the european union must not allow itself to be the victim of another country, as cyprus has been - and i am thinking of palmyra in syria now - neither in europe nor in other parts of the world.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we agree that forced labour is a violation of human rights and an affront to the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. the european union's policies must therefore be implemented to defend human rights and decent work and to eliminate trafficking in human beings, both within and outside its borders. labour rights are one of the key pillars of decent work and provide the main means of combating exploitation through work.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission's recommendation is intended to empower member states to ratify the updating of the 1930 anti-slavery treaty, which defines forced labour. the update includes, inter alia, measures for education and information of citizens by ilo member states, prevention against slavery and protection of migrant workers in particular. we have always been and will continue to be anti-slavery, pro-human rights and pro-worker rights. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is common knowledge that parliament, in exercising its powers in respect of privileges and immunities, acts with a view to maintaining its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly and to ensuring the independence of its members in the performance of their duties. so each application is evaluated and, through a specific procedure, the immunity is lifted and it is for this reason that the decision to lift the immunity is taken.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the subject of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters, which is necessary and is being implemented correctly.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the rapporteur clarifies that, on the issue of trade in seal products, the wto decision can be respected while respecting the compromise reached in 2009 by parliament and the council with regulation 1007/2009 which provided for two exceptions to the ban on seal products. the first concerns the right of the inuit and indigenous peoples to self-determination and to use their resources, and the second concerns the management of marine resources in the baltic sea.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the message is clear with this report. we have no intention of endangering the health of our families and future generations by consuming products of questionable quality. it is known that the cloning technique is not fully developed and no progress has been made in this field, and the mortality rates remain very high. the report rightly notes the concerns and calls on the commission to take the necessary measures.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2013 and 2014 is indeed part of an institutional framework that is particularly sensitive to the issue of respect for fundamental rights in the european union today. the charter of fundamental rights recognises a range of individual, civil, political, economic and social rights for eu citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the charter of fundamental rights recognises a range of individual, civil, political, economic and social rights for eu citizens and residents, without discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour. however, the violations of these rights committed on eu territory have not been curtailed. on the contrary, the crisis and austerity are eroding the level of fundamental rights enjoyed by the people while at the same time breeding the ground for the rise of racism and the far right. the report presents a relatively comprehensive picture of reality, which belies the promises and declarations of european leadership on prosperity and human rights. it is once again proving that the european union, before lecturing the rest of the world on democracy and freedom, should first look within its own house. this situation is certainly not going to change with the conferral of new powers on the brussels directorate which will allow it to impose sanctions on member states at its discretion, a discretion which has repeatedly proved to be backward. fundamental changes are needed in europe, a new socioeconomic direction that will guarantee - not only on paper but also in practice - fundamental rights as an integral part of the daily lives of all the inhabitants of our continent.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the charter of fundamental rights recognises a range of individual, civil, political, economic and social rights for eu citizens and residents, without discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour. however, the numerous violations of these rights committed on eu territory have neither been stopped nor curtailed. on the contrary, the crisis and austerity are eroding the level of fundamental rights enjoyed by our peoples, while at the same time creating the ground for the rise of racism and the far right. the resolution reflects in a relatively comprehensive way the reality which is at odds with the promises and declarations of european leadership on prosperity and human rights. it is once again proving that the european union, before lecturing the rest of the world on democracy and freedom, should look at its own home first. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. fundamental changes are needed in europe, a new socioeconomic direction that will guarantee - not only on paper but also in practice - fundamental rights as an integral part of the daily lives of all the inhabitants of our continent.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is good practice, as has been the case since 1994, for the regular hearings of commissioners to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the european union's institutions, thereby bringing the institutions closer to the european citizens. the commission's role in the european parliament is to ensure that the european parliament is consulted on the commission's proposals. in addition, we believe that the procedures for monitoring commissioners-designate during hearings could help to improve control and strengthen the overall responsibility of the commission.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the new proposal in the report achieves the following - and this is part of a more general direction and policy pursued in the institutions in recent years within a more general framework of depoliticization: 1) limiting the possibility of voting only to the will of the two major political groups;2) reducing the role of political groups, since it is up to the majority of meps themselves;3) reducing the possibility of voting and, finally, reducing the possibility for groups and meps to express a political position on the commissioners-designate. as a group, we express ourselves politically by voting in the voting procedure for the president of the commission and the commissioners. we do not judge them as individuals, but we vote against the anti-people neoliberal programme and the memorandum policies they proclaim and follow (the commission's policies do not differ in relation to who each commissioner is). we are opposed, together with our political group, to the reduction or even abolition of the voting procedure for commissioners. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the today, in recognizing that technological systems can be abused as tools for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorized access to devices, interference, eavesdropping, tracking and tracing of information and individuals, we must recognize that fundamental freedoms and human rights are universal and must be protected globally. we therefore call for measures to ensure that the privacy of activists, journalists and citizens is protected worldwide and that they can network via the internet. we reiterate and support the position that internet access should be recognised as a human right and call for measures to close the digital divide.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report calls on the commission to submit immediately full use of the simplification process of the common agricultural policy, in particular with regard to the burdensome and complex regulations governing multiple compliance and proportional dimension which ultimately affect farmers across europe. we support the commission's initiative to simplify the cap by examining immediately measures that can be implemented quickly, as this will bring benefits to farmers, paying agencies, eu institutions and taxpayers. we note that the cost of cap controls amounts to eur 4 billion per year and that it concerns 50 million operations with a budget for agriculture of approximately eur 58 billion. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is necessary for the european commission to promote the strengthening of the entrepreneurial spirit across the eu, taking into account the importance of family businesses in the eu economy, and to create the necessary environment to foster entrepreneurial excellence. it is necessary to strengthen competitiveness and grow the european economy by 2020 by drawing up a roadmap of measures that can strengthen the economic environment and the development of family businesses in the eu.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is part of a major effort to institutionalize eu support for family businesses that are too large to be considered smes. although the title 'family businesses in europe' is misleading in referring to smes, the report refers mainly to very large family businesses, even large multinational companies. in particular, it calls on the member states to promote tax concessions, tax exemptions, easy access for large family businesses to various sources of financing, growth incentives, etc., on the grounds that strengthening large family businesses simultaneously strengthens the eu's competitiveness and increases the strength of the european economy. it is clear to us that it is not the big businesses and multinationals that need support but the smes and the workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. we are fighting against such anti-people, anti-worker and anti-development economic policies. for these reasons we abstained from the vote. we did not vote against, as the report contains individual positive references to smes and the need to support them in various ways.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i believe that the development of the blue economy must focus on sustainable economic activities that meet the needs of present and future generations and create prosperity for society. the development of the blue economy requires a substantial integration of scientific knowledge, which is the basis of research and innovation. we stress the need to raise awareness among citizens of the importance of the sea as an economic, cultural and social resource, and of the role of research and dialogue between stakeholders and citizens in achieving full sustainability. we believe that seas and coasts are valuable resources and should be one of the pillars of eu policy. nevertheless, there have been changes to the report which raise doubts and distort substantial substantive issues.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission's proposal to exploit the potential of the eu's seas needs to be improved in a number of areas, which are set out in the ep report. for example, the report calls on the commission to develop a financial framework to promote innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and the creation of quality jobs. this framework will coordinate and facilitate access to available financial instruments for local authorities, smes, non-governmental organisations and public authorities. the report also very rightly notes dissatisfaction with the impact of the budget cuts to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme and the impact of the cuts to public investment on national research programmes. equally important, public investment is crucial to boosting growth and unlocking the full potential of the blue economy and should therefore be strengthened immediately. the commission is also called upon to provide funds for blue growth to finance research, vocational training, job creation, smes, education and poverty reduction. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the promotion of youth entrepreneurship through education and training, particularly today when youth unemployment rates are very high. at the same time, we stress that fiscal consolidation in the member states most affected by the crisis should not be implemented at the expense of job creation. we believe that promoting entrepreneurship is an important driver of economic growth that leads to the creation of new jobs, creates new businesses, opens up new markets, enhances competitiveness and generates wealth, ultimately promoting the well-being of countries and peoples.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i agree with the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism that europe is one of the main tourist destinations because of its rich cultural, artistic, religious and historical heritage. it is particularly important that cultural tourism in europe represents 40% of total tourism. i should like to stress that cyprus, a member state of the european union, has been culturally crippled for 41 years by the turkish occupation. i would also point out that in occupied cyprus, which represents some 40%, its cultural and religious heritage, which is also european heritage, has been confiscated and destroyed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i call on the european commission to stop this enormous cultural crime against cyprus and the whole of the eu by all means.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this exhibition has the potential to enhance the tourism product of cyprus by presenting it in a more integrated and organised way and by highlighting its role in the cultural heritage of europe. the relationship between cultural heritage and tourism is undoubtedly mutually beneficial. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's cultural heritage is protected. the people also have the responsibility for managing and exploiting this heritage and its potential for profit. unfortunately, this approach is not reflected in the report. the absence of any reference to the need to respect the specificities of each state and people in the protection and management of their cultural heritage is also a significant omission. unfortunately, the report only gives special weight to the concept of economic management of cultural heritage and the development of a common european identity. that is why we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we recognise the international human right to access water and sanitation as a basic human right, as affirmed by a un general assembly resolution. we believe that the right to water should guarantee to all sufficient, safe, accessible and affordable water for domestic and personal use. we therefore urge the commission to commit to the sustainable development goals and the international process for the development agenda for 2015 to ensure that future goals are framed in respect for rights, including the right to water.
in writing. ‒ today in plenary i expressed my support for the european citizens’ initiative calling for access to water and sanitation to be considered as a fundamental right. the human right to water and sanitation, as recognised by the un, is universal, and the european union, as a global player, should increase its efforts to make it a reality beyond europe. the eu legislation should require governments to ensure, and to provide all citizens with, sufficient and clean drinking water and sanitation. governments are obliged to ensure – by adopting legislation, policies and programmes and ensuring that they are adequately resourced and monitored – that everybody gains access to these services within an acceptable timeframe. i want to call for the permanent exclusion of water, sanitation and waste water disposal from internal market rules. there should be no chance for profit-seeking over people’s most basic need. i also consider it imperative that water is completely excluded from trade markets, as, for example, in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement. the human right to water and sanitation should be placed at the centre of legislation, policies and regulations and it should be ensured that those who do not fully enjoy this human right have access to justice.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, mrs westphal and mr deutsch, and of course the committee on regional development, for these excellent reports, which bring to the fore two major issues for cohesion policy: the sixth cohesion report and, of course, the urban dimension. cohesion policy, as you know, is the european union's main source of investment. together with the national part of co-financing, it will mobilise over eur 630 billion in the 2014-2020 funding period to support the efforts of member states and regions to implement structural reforms and to lay the foundations for a sustainable recovery. in many member states, especially those facing reduced incomes and rising social spending, european union funding has become the main source of public investment. we have savings in the european union, where our funds contribute almost 85 percent of the total public investment in these countries. our objective now, as mr deutsch's report also shows, is to ensure that these funds reach the people as quickly as possible and that they generate economic growth and jobs as quickly as possible. in this respect, i am pleased to say that almost all the cohesion policy programmes for the funding period have been adopted and the corresponding pre-financing amounts have already been transferred - there are only four operational programmes left to be adopted by the end of the year. now, of course, the key word is implementation. we need to act at all levels - national and european - to ensure that these programmes are translated into quality projects capable of generating economic growth and creating new jobs. the operational programmes adopted will certainly meet this challenge, as they are results-oriented, all programmes offer a wide range of indicators and targets that allow us to quantify the expectations from our investments. those programmes must also comply with a number of ex ante conditionalities which are essential to enable member states and regions to better exploit the potential of the funds, and, not least, those programmes have been specifically designed to contribute to the union's top priorities: job creation, investment and prosperity, the digital single market or the energy union and climate change. i can assure you that we, the european commission, will be closely monitoring the implementation of the new programmes. we do everything necessary to help member states implement these programmes effectively at national, local and regional level, in support of the beneficiaries. they are the key actors of cohesion policy, identifying, selecting and implementing projects funded with european money, thus making real changes for the better possible, that matter and are seen in the daily lives of european citizens. that's why we're preparing a series of actions to support them in their daily work. i would like to mention just a few of these measures: facilitating the exchange of good practice among those involved in the implementation of cohesion policy (we have 24 000 european-funded workers in all member states, many of whom have already gained a lot of experience and i believe that this exchange of good practice is essential to move forward), organising seminars on state aid or financial instruments or launching joint actions with the court of auditors to improve the public procurement system. of course, the responsibility for using these instruments lies almost exclusively with national, regional and local authorities. i would like to congratulate you, as well as the rapporteur, mrs kerstin westphal, on this report on the urban dimension. like you, i truly believe that just as the major challenges facing society are also found in cities and functional urban areas, the appropriate solutions can also be found there. i share your view that we should pay more attention to this urban policy. we already had a meeting with all the mayors of the capital cities in vienna, and also a few months ago, before the holidays, we organized the biggest event in brussels for small and medium-sized cities, because, as you said, it is very important. of course, we don't address it directly, but through operational programmes, basically, what you say is happening: we address the problems of cities. there is also this issue of subsidiarity, you know very well that many cities and some national governments are opposed to having a separate policy on cities, but i think it is our duty to develop this urban agenda that you were talking about. i want to assure you that the new programmes already contain an innovative toolkit and clear provisions to ensure massive involvement and more sustained support for urban areas, based on partnership and the principle of decentralisation. we estimate that at least €80 billion from the european regional development fund will be invested directly or indirectly in urban areas. in particular, €15 billion will be directly managed by cities under sustainable urban development strategies. it is the first time that, with the regulations that you have approved here in the european parliament, we have this mutual trust to give cities directly budgets for investment. i really believe, as you say, that we can and must do more. as i said, we are preparing the eu urban agenda, we want to help mobilise the potential of cities to become drivers of job creation, social inclusion and sustainable development. you are of course well aware that we are working on this to ensure better coordination of eu actions and synergies in this area. we have already set up a public consultation, organised, as i said, a series of conferences and laid the foundations for an agreement by all the member states. i am pleased to note that the luxembourg presidency and also the dutch presidency place a strong emphasis on urban policy and i would like to assure you of the european commission's readiness to work with you on all the issues raised in both reports. as you know, the time allotted for the intervention is limited, so i will close for the moment and i certainly look forward to the debate and dialogue with you on these issues.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, cohesion policy is linked to the principles of the european union and in particular to solidarity, which is the very raison d'être of the european union itself. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 1994 to 1999 is based on the principle of the european monetary system, which is a single currency. we call on the european commission to create a coherent and more efficient investment framework. i would therefore like to focus on two key points, commissioner. first, the close interlinking of funding with the fiscal and macroeconomic adjustment of the member states essentially subverts the logic of solidarity on which cohesion policy was based and at the same time reverses its regional character and will therefore have a negative impact on the achievement of its objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to conclude with a second point, mr president, to say that the fact that we did not have a report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs was the result of the ideological opposition of certain conservative circles.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the economic crisis has obviously had very serious consequences for the cohesion of the european union in the fields of industry, energy and research. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. it is important to support public investment and to pay attention to the countries most affected by the economic crisis. many of these are mentioned in the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy and we hope that they will be taken into account, because if a social policy of development is not immediately promoted, then the union will never be able to reduce the great economic, social and territorial disparities.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the change of the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to 'delegation for relations with palestine' is also in line with the positive work produced by the delegation. it also underlines the importance of the state of palestine and supports the two-state solution and the creation of an independent palestinian state. at the same time, such actions, even if they are symbolic, send a message of solidarity to the palestinians that their struggle has not been forgotten and that a large part of the international community will stand by them until final justification. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ strengthening cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau is necessary in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau's fishing zone in the interests of both parties.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community. the economy of madagascar is based mainly on agriculture, livestock and fishing. fisheries resources are used for local consumption and form the basis of international agreements within the framework of which this fisheries partnership agreement is integrated. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar is based on the rules established on the basis of the management mandate of the indian ocean tuna management committee and other internationally accepted rules.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the agreement takes a 'positive integration' approach through concrete practices rather than avoiding the use of certain policies. it contains some 40 provisions to speed up the release for free circulation and customs clearance of goods, including provisions on the publication of laws, regulations and procedures, the use of electronic payments, simplification of formalities and documentation requirements or uniformity in the application of border procedures.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the budapest convention is an agreement which falls partly within the exclusive competence of the european union. however, the convention does not provide for the possibility for the union to become a contracting party. however, member states may not ratify or accede to it without the authorization of the union. the draft decision therefore authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ regarding the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional protection measures for italy and greece, and taking into account the proposal from the committee on budgets and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we approve the commission proposal as amended and call on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the eu policies should in any case support cities, towns and functional urban areas and encourage them to realise their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development. very rightly, member states are encouraged to cooperate fully with cities and functional urban areas, seeking their mandatory involvement in the development and planning of strategic policies such as national reform programmes and operational programmes.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report deals with eu urban policy. while it has various concerns about the problems of urbanisation, its whole policy philosophy is based on the neoliberal policies of the europe 2020 strategy. furthermore, although the environmental and demographic challenges and problems that exist today are documented, there is no mention of the need to promote a developmental social policy that is people-centred, contributes to the creation of new quality jobs and provides solutions to the significant problems that cities are facing today, especially due to the economic crisis and the harsh neoliberal memorandum policies.
the situation in the middle east is becoming increasingly dangerous. unfortunately, the union's foreign policy is destabilising the region by supporting imperialist interventions that feed terrorist forces, bloodshed the peoples and create waves of refugees. the palestinian problem is at the heart of the drama. the resolution of the palestinian problem will play a decisive role in the establishment of peace throughout the middle east. we therefore expect the union to support the struggle of the palestinian people for the creation of an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. we expect him to respect international and european law and to put pressure on israel to end its settlement and apartheid policies. we believe, mrs mogherini, that the union must respect its own declarations and suspend the association agreement until israel stops violating article 2 on the need to respect human rights. we also call on you to intervene to put an end to the arms trade between member states and israel, which is bombing gaza and destroying entire families. we want you to insist on guaranteeing the right of refugees to return and to denounce the continuing violations of human rights. the refugees, and especially the children who are now becoming refugees for the second time, must be protected and the release of all palestinian prisoners must be demanded. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and we must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. the union must serve only the interests of peace in the region.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as a left party we have in the past given our full support to social enterprises, for example in the context of cooperatives. we therefore know and appreciate the potential of these businesses, which are focused on people and social development rather than on maximising their profits. the report on social enterprises which we are called upon to vote on contains positive elements, such as the definition of such enterprises as being characterized by the primacy of individual and social objectives over the interests of capital and such as democratic control by their members and the defence and application of the principles of solidarity and responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that social enterprises should remain committed to their social mission and should not be used as a vehicle for gambling by stockbrokers. the european union must change course and move away from the path of neoliberalism and unbridled capitalism. we have the experience of the current economic crisis, which was precisely caused by this thirst for big profits on the part of the banks, the construction industry and other businesses. social enterprises must stay out of any profit-making race. )
madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. i would like to start with something very correctly said by the vice-president, namely that if we legislate but this is not applied in the european union, then this legislation is as if it did not exist. so there is a place within the european union where basic human rights are not applied. the right of ownership does not apply. the right to religious worship does not apply. the right of establishment does not apply. the basic human rights of voting and being elected are not being applied. the republic - its function - is not applied. this is the occupied part of the republic of cyprus, the part illegally occupied by turkish troops. i want each of us to think about what the interests of the european union are, to think about whether the interests of the european union are also its values, to think about whether we can tolerate such a situation within the european union. thank you, sir.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the cohesion policy is the european union's main tool to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities in european regions, boost their competitiveness, tackle climate change and energy dependence, while contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. we believe that cohesion policy measures play a significant role in reducing internal competitive disparities and structural imbalances in the regions most in need. the commission is rightly asked to consider the possibility of pre-financing in order to facilitate the full use of funds by member states in the period 2014-2020.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the economic crisis has had a very serious impact on the cohesion of the eu. but to solve the problems we must admit that the neoliberal measures of severe austerity have contributed to the deindustrialization of the south, the deregulation of labour relations, the dismantling of the welfare state, the selling off of public wealth, the closure of many smes and the increase in unemployment, especially among young people. new policies are therefore needed to achieve real economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu. the real economy must be stimulated, growth promoted and new quality jobs created. it is equally important to support public investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many of these are mentioned in the itre committee's opinion but unfortunately not taken into account in the report of the development committee responsible. the report does, however, contain some positive references. for example, it recognises the important problems of unemployment, it refers to the need to tackle regional disparities and it stresses the important role of smes and the need to support them. that is why we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we recognise and believe that the european year 2012 has provided important political momentum and contributed to the development of a debate on the challenges of active ageing and solidarity between generations in europe. we encourage and recommend that all member states promote and strengthen, through their social security systems, high quality public infrastructure for older people (old age homes, day care centres, home care) where older people are treated as active participants and not as passive recipients of the initiatives in which they participate.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eu's active ageing strategy is really an attempt to link life expectancy to retirement age, something we on the left have been and are strongly opposed to. the report did not address the existence or absence of active ageing policy but only its evaluation. the commission has already made a number of important recommendations in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the taking into account that the transport sector is the engine of the eu economy, employing some 10 million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp, and that it should remain a leader in creating further economic growth and jobs and in promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion, we welcome the commission's intention to undertake a mid-term review of the white paper with a view to assessing the progress achieved and proposing further actions to meet its objectives.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is an indisputable fact that gender equality is one of the principles on which the eu is founded and that it must be respected, among other things, in the research and academic sectors. any form of direct or indirect discrimination against women must be abolished. we also call on the member states and regions to promote the development of universities and research centres which are family-friendly.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we agree and support the position that education is the foundation of responsible citizenship, is an important factor in ensuring gender equality and the empowerment of girls, and is a fundamental human right and a right of every child. we therefore rightly call on the commission and the member states to implement and improve measures to implement gender equality at all levels of the education system and to fully incorporate measures to raise awareness of gender equality issues. in addition, member states should promote the democratisation of education and fulfil other conditions necessary to ensure that education, whether provided in schools or other educational structures, contributes to ensuring gender equality and equal opportunities.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report calls for immediate action to be taken to implement gender equality at all levels of the education system and to raise awareness of gender equality in the training of teachers and for all education professionals. it also called on the member states to do all that is necessary to ensure that education contributes to ensuring gender equality and equal opportunities, to eliminating economic, social and cultural disparities and to promoting solidarity. it is also important to mention the need to recognise that sensitive, age-appropriate and scientifically accurate sexuality and relationship education is a key tool for empowering girls and boys, helping them to make informed choices and contributing positively to broader priorities. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we recognise that the close relations between the eu, the eea-efta countries and switzerland go beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market and contribute to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses, including smes. we stress the importance of ensuring the proper functioning of the single market in order to create a level playing field and new jobs.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is very important that the report states that member states should introduce strict sanctions for trafficking and smuggling of people to and throughout the eu. the european parliament also called on the member states to combat criminal smuggling networks, but not to impose sanctions on those who voluntarily assist migrants for humanitarian reasons. we also agree that the eu, its member states and the international community must play a greater role in conflict resolution and in helping to find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected areas.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution is a major improvement on previous resolutions. it called for the dublin regulation to be amended, a common asylum system to be developed and measures to promote equal burden-sharing between the member states to be promoted. however, it is seriously lacking in fundamental issues. for example, there is no recognition of the responsibility of the eu's ruling circles for the dramatic increase in refugees due to the military imperialist interventions they have carried out in the countries of migrants, due to the financing and arming of various groups in syria and libya and due to the neo-liberal, neo-colonial policies that continue to be promoted at the expense of the poorest countries of the world. unfortunately, there is no mention in the report of the need to end eu military operations and to reorient the union's foreign policy. the commission has also been very active in the fight against terrorism, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in the fight against terrorism. what is needed, but not mentioned in the report, is to create legal and safe channels for refugees to access and to promote additional measures by member states to support refugees. for these reasons we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is very positive that the eu's willingness to provide support to facilitate the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict as well as the wider arab-israeli conflict by peaceful and constructive means that serve the eu's interests in security, stability, and prosperity in the middle east is underlined. the resolution calls again for a new eu approach that genuinely serves the interests of peace and security for both israelis and palestinians.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament also expressed its support for the commission's policy of 'critical engagement' with the belarusian authorities and its readiness to contribute through its delegation for relations with belarus. the eu must also remain vigilant about where it allocates its resources and ensure that they do not contribute to the worsening situation faced by the opposition and civil society.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the eu has set out the lines it will follow in the coming years under strategy 2020, with very ambitious objectives from which it must not retreat. the eu faces important short-term challenges such as economic and fiscal sustainability, social welfare and, in particular, job creation, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups such as young people, women and the elderly, the long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, migrants. but to meet these challenges, the eu must take into account future challenges, such as population ageing and rural abandonment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on social enterprises contained positive elements such as their definition as enterprises characterised by the primacy of individual and social objectives over capital interests, democratic control by their members, and the promotion and application of the principles of solidarity and responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we disagree with the rapporteur's attempt to undermine the principles of social entrepreneurship by allowing these companies to enter the stock market and allowing financial funds to use them, either to avoid taxes or to multiply their own profits. social enterprises must remain committed to their social work and not be used as vehicles for gambling by stockbrokers. we have already experienced the current economic crisis, which was caused precisely by this thirst for big profits on the part of the banks and big business. our position is clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is widely accepted that, as a consequence of the european economic crisis and the resulting economic slowdown, some member states are facing high levels of unemployment (eu-28 - 9.9%) as well as public debt, low growth and insufficient investment. it is noted that youth unemployment rates in the eu (eu-28-20,9%) are particularly high and the situation is not improving. thus, in order to consolidate a competitive eu economy and labour market, there is a strong need to focus on innovation and digitalisation and, therefore, to ensure the necessary knowledge and skills as well as the motivation and determination of workers to create innovative products and services. this is the only way to meet the new challenges in the labour market and the creation of new jobs.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the emphasis in the report is limited to individual skills and worker mobility, shifting the bulk of responsibility for employment mainly onto the shoulders of workers, rather than proposing a holistic approach to the phenomenon, with the state also taking on its responsibilities. at the same time, the european parliament calls for all possible facilities to be made available to employers and their organisations so that they can shape both the labour and education policies of the state in accordance with their own priorities and needs. the integration of the system of recognition of qualifications (even experiential qualifications) throughout the eu can be considered positive if it is placed in the context of voluntary job search abroad, and not of indirect forced migration. the greatest weakness of the text is the positioning of unemployment as a social phenomenon. unfortunately, instead of proposing public investment, boosting re-industrialisation and social development, the report focuses on the problem of labour mobility and skills mismatch. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is worth noting that delayed transposition, incorrect transposition and poor application of union law can lead to differentiation between member states and distort competition conditions across the eu. it is also noted that citizens who wish to live, work and do business in another member state face continuous difficulties in their daily lives due to the different application of eu law in the legal orders of the member states.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the union. the council has failed to agree on binding quotas for the resettlement of refugees. member states are closing their borders and taking repressive measures to prevent refugees from entering. it is a fact that the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and that the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process. on the contrary, they bear a heavy responsibility for the current humanitarian crisis: they support and participate in the interventions and wars that are bleeding peoples and creating massive waves of refugees. the european union must reject xenophobic and racist policies if it is not to be hypocritical. our proposals are clear. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to deal with this matter. abolish dublin ii, support refugee host states, establish permanent mechanisms for the resettlement of refugees and develop a common asylum system ensuring the free movement of recognised refugees throughout the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, although we consider that this resolution is not enough and we agree that there is a major humanitarian crisis, that there is war and that the european union must contribute with all its institutions to bring peace to the region, we nevertheless consider it unacceptable that some member states are closing their borders today and are not seeing this major humanitarian crisis. we shall support this motion. we must move from words to deeds. there are thousands of people who are in urgent need of help, and so are member states such as italy, hungary and greece. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european council has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
madam president, we welcome and support this aid to greece and the greek people, even if it is not apparently the aid that the greek people might have expected or are expecting, but it is very important and i would also welcome the statement by the vice-president of the commission, mr dombrovskis, who said that 'we have the means and with all our strength we will strive to support programmes for the greek people and greece'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all have a duty, not only as a sign of solidarity, but because this is what the european union should be about, if it is to be considered a union, to support and sustain a people within it who is being tested hard, such as greece. i think that the two billion will give the opportunity and the possibility of using this money for growth and the creation of new jobs. it is important to tackle the unemployment in greece, but also in other countries such as cyprus, portugal and spain, which have suffered from this kind of economic crisis and these programmes must be activated quickly in these countries, with over-simplified procedures, defeating the invincible bureaucracy of brussels. the european union also has a responsibility to ensure that these programmes succeed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, however, i cannot ignore what my colleague mr torvalds, who i hope is ignorant and only ignorant, has said about the turkish minority. it is an unhistorical, unreal setting that has nothing to do with reality. in greece there is only a religious muslim minority, which enjoys all the rights. it is hellenism, the asiatic, the pontic and the constantinopolitan, that suffered persecution from the turks and not the religious minority in greece.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting and presentation of this report to the house and the shadow rapporteurs. the presentation is made in a very consensual, i would say, manner and without too many controversial points. the report refers to the role of local authorities as agents of development and stresses the importance of the factors that constitute an effective development policy. it also refers to the mechanisms by which the european union can support local authorities in developing countries in implementing development programmes. strengthening the role of local authorities is important and is linked to an improved economic and social environment for the implementation of the millennium development goals. these objectives are important for reducing poverty and improving the living conditions of citizens in every region, but especially in urban centres and where there are concentrated and highly dense populations living in miserable conditions, in slums, for example. the ultimate objective is to create conditions for the provision of effective community services and development by local authorities. the report builds on the post-2015 development agenda and the conclusions of rio + 20. the report therefore stresses the need for effective global cooperation between both the public and private sectors, as well as between states, local authorities as institutions of the various states and the social base. the general lines of the report emphasise that development is the result of improving the mechanisms of action of local authorities and is based on the principles of local responsibility, democracy and the capacity of local authorities to achieve pre-defined objectives. the importance of the participation of indigenous peoples is emphasised in order to achieve the objectives set. this means strengthening participatory democracy and increasing controls and, therefore, curbing corruption. if anyone had listened to the previous conversation, they would have understood exactly what we were trying to say. the important role of technology and the means it provides, and the importance of exploiting the natural resources of each region to achieve local development, are becoming clear. the relationship between central and local authorities, which varies according to the state systems of each country and, above all, the level of democracy, should be given special attention and emphasis. the quality and effectiveness of local authorities are relevant to the democratic nature of central government and the political stability of the country. the powers and responsibilities of the centre are important and essential when they provide effective functioning, through local authorities and aim at combating poverty, social inequality with the ultimate goal of development. a major problem is the inability to work with healthy local authorities when the central one explains power plagued by corruption. i have tried to give my personal experience of 25 years of work in africa. in these circumstances, two important directions are relevant between the relations of central and local authorities. first, the granting of more powers and responsibilities to local authorities, where appropriate, especially in large countries, for the purposes of decentralization and efficient administration. secondly, the granting of special powers from the centre to local authorities. the first dimension is interconnected with the second and vice versa. the european union has an obligation to pursue a positive policy towards developing countries based on mutual respect, knowing that solving the problems in these countries also frees us from many problems within the european union, such as the continuing, uncontrolled and dangerous for themselves waves of migration. the commission's proposal is to make the european union more effective in its efforts to promote the development of the poorest countries, and to make the european union more effective in its efforts to promote the development of the poorest countries. the proper allocation of development aid depends heavily on local authorities.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, i thank the commissioner, all my colleagues for their contribution to the debate. i want to tell you about a myth from my homeland, from greek mythology: the story of the danaid myth, where the danaids were cursed to try to fill a jar with a thousand holes with water. this is the countries that are currently receiving development aid, a pit with a thousand holes in it, and what we're doing is trying to close some of the holes by strengthening local government. we are not trying to solve the whole problem by raising the question of local government. i would like to say to my colleagues a few things we should be careful about: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are not asking for an increase in development aid today, but for an increase in its effectiveness. so, the point is, this aid we give is going to work, creating infrastructure, so that people can live better. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we are not talking, of course, about local government in europe, but we are talking about local government in some other countries, where if some colleagues knew what is happening in the poor countries, they would speak with more fear about what might happen in the world and would not insist that the european union cannot export democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that generalizations and rules cannot apply to all countries, all mentalities and all regions of the world. there are democratically elected local governments, but there are also areas where the local government is in the hands of the chief of the tribe. we must take all these things into account, taking into account the level of democracy there and above. if we respect all these, the result will certainly be positive and we will not be talking about local government on a european scale.
madam president, this is a very good action by the committee on petitions. but if we replace the word 'spain' with 'cyprus', all the rest is true, and much worse: the ineffective application of european legislation and the inaction that is being observed. the absolute figures may be small in the case of cyprus, but as a percentage in another large member state they would be enormous, and this also applies to the letters, especially to borrowers, which still exist in cyprus, and in which systematic and massive abusive provisions are used, such as those which are either listed in the european directive or have been assessed by the european court as illegal. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. a large part of society was driven to wither and social alienation, even suicide. so we are not just talking about agreements. and a suggestion to the commissioner: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of banking supervision. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the humanitarian problem is, first and foremost, saving human lives, but can anyone conceive of safety and protection for these peaceful populations, as long as there is no eradication of isis first and foremost? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. our european conscience requires us to help refugees, but we must help to end refugees, and that cannot be done without eradicating isis. i hate assad, but we have priorities. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. since he's in brussels, instead of the trade we're doing with him, at least ask him to stop bombing the kurds. one last phrase: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the 2014 protocol concerns fundamental rights, victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is a criminal offence that affects not only individuals but society and the economy as a whole. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in protecting the rights of victims of crime across europe. the ratification of the protocol by the member states will make it easier to prosecute traffickers.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the 2014 protocol deals with fundamental rights, victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a crime that is a major social issue. the ratification of the protocol is an important step towards combating trafficking in human beings and protecting the human rights of its victims across europe. although the original forced labor/slavery treaty went into effect about 100 years ago, sadly millions of people today remain in slavery and trafficking. the ratification of the protocol by all member states will lead to a strengthening of the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is why its immediate ratification is an absolute necessity. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the council's draft implementing decision and call on the council to inform parliament if it intends to deviate from the text adopted by parliament.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the council decision of 10 may 2005 on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, i am voting in favour of the council's draft.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ taking into account the council's draft and the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we support the council's draft.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the council's draft and the council decision of 10 may on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, i am voting in favour of the council's draft.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the commission, with the support of the european parliament, is right to propose that the european union solidarity fund be mobilised to provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria caused by severe winter conditions which caused a disaster which is classified as a major disaster. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was compatible with the internal market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is very important that non-agricultural products of a specific geographical origin which have specific characteristics or are produced by traditional methods can benefit from uniform protection at union level through geographical indications. it would therefore be particularly important for the european union to adopt legislation on non-agricultural geographical indications in order to fully exploit the positive economic consequences of protecting the distinctiveness and quality of these products, to provide consumers with reliable information on their place and method of production and to preserve the know-how for the jobs related to them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i supported the resolution on extending the protection and registration of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, i.e. protection to include local goods and handicrafts based on traditional know-how. i think it is essential to promote this resolution and to introduce legislation immediately to establish a protection framework which will make it compulsory to include geographical indications on local goods and handicrafts, such as white ribbon embroidery in the case of my home country of cyprus. the above indicative listing of local goods will certainly lead to the extension of this protection to other local products and will contribute to the re-emergence of crafts and businesses whose employment will further stimulate the economy of our local communities, with beneficial effects and the preservation of our common cultural heritage. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain dangerous substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the commission is right to propose that the common provisions regulation be amended to provide for additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal. furthermore, a ceiling of 100% is provided for the cumulative total of pre-financing and interim payments and an increase of the co-financing rate to 100% for the operational programmes of the period 2007-2013 for the objectives 'convergence' and 'regional competitiveness and employment' in greece.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the serious liquidity and public resources problems facing greece as a consequence of the economic crisis the country has been experiencing in recent years could create particular problems in the absorption of community resources both for the previous (2007-2013) and the current (2014-2020) programming period, and consequently delay or prevent the planned investments in the country. i therefore voted in favour of this report, also recognising the urgency of adopting specific measures to enhance the effective use of the €35 billion allocated to greece in the eu budget for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the exceptional measures provided for in the regulation will be able to support the prospect of the best possible absorption of the resources available from the european structural and investment funds and consequently the achievement of a sustainable recovery of the greek economy, through the creation of new jobs and the promotion of investment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the context of the negative growth rates in greece as a result of the economic crisis and the harsh neoliberal memorandum measures imposed, the commission proposes that specific measures be taken in the event of greece's use of european funds. for the period 2014-2020, greece is to receive an amount of eur 20 billion from the european funds. however, due to the harsh memorandum measures and the objective inability to fulfil the conditions for the use of sufficient funds, greece risks losing eur 2 billion from the 2007-2013 financial period. the commission therefore proposes that it be allowed to take the necessary steps immediately to ensure that the european funds are used to provide the necessary funding. the commission's proposal is to be supported by the acp-eec joint assembly, which is to be chaired by the president of the commission, and by the commission, which is to be chaired by the president of the council.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the proposal is for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by adam opel ag, which was active in the motor vehicle manufacturing sector. the request concerns 2881 workers who were made redundant. this support is important because it helps workers to return to the workplace and to temporarily alleviate the effects of being laid off.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the request concerns 5111 workers made redundant by the vehicle manufacturer ford genk in order to mobilise the european adjustment fund for belgium with a view to reintegrating them into the labour market. the commission has decided to make available a sum of approximately eur 6 million to help workers who have been made redundant and are in difficulty. it is important to mobilise this fund for workers, in cooperation with the countries concerned, because it is a network for the protection of those who have been made redundant.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the request concerns 1249 workers made redundant by the alitalia group, which operates in the air transport sector. the international air transport market has suffered enormous damage, leading to either closures or mass layoffs of workers. it is proposed to mobilise eur 1 414 848 to help redundant workers re-enter the labour market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the need to ensure a fairer transfer of financial resources from the national level to the subregional, municipal and community level is rightly emphasised. member states should be encouraged to transfer part of national budgetary resources to regional and local authorities and greater support should be given to strengthening the financial and budgetary capacity of the lags. it is necessary to use part of the european budgetary assistance to finance the oda.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the local authorities have an important role to play in achieving the goal of reducing poverty, fighting hunger and protecting the environment. in addition, they play a role in local development and in the creation of new, quality and decent jobs. the report considers eu support to the local community to be important and makes it vital to mobilise resources at local level. it also called on the commission to promote innovative sources of funding for decentralised cooperation. we voted against this report because it promotes the strengthening of local government. as akel we have always fought and to this day continue to fight for a modern, strengthened local government which will guarantee social goods and democratic expression and participation.
mr president, the volkswagen scandal must be investigated to the end, as it is not an isolated incident. it is, on the contrary, of a broader nature, in terms of the role of the large multinational companies which, unfortunately, with the complicity of some governments, impose policies, are out of control and serve their private interests at the expense of society and public health. the commission has a serious responsibility, commissioner, as well as the german government. the commission's investigation service was aware and warned in a report in 2013 that volkswagen's suspension systems could distort the measurement results, but took no action. the fraud committed is a serious breach of both european environmental law and consumer rights. the union must urgently promote concrete measures to ensure effective control, always with a view to protecting the rights of consumers, human health and the environment.
your honor, just the other day, it was announced in saudi arabia that a young man would be beheaded and then crucified in public. this is not just an insult to saudi arabia, it is an insult to all of us who may object, but our governments and the european union, in effect, do nothing but rhetoric. in iran, they hang people in public, they hang them on cranes, in public view, but at the same time, mrs. mogherini visited the leader of iran and couldn't utter two words about the sentences. it has only looked at the economic interests that would result from the lifting of sanctions against iran. so what we have to do is to demand that the leaders of the european union report these situations to the leaders of these countries, to shout it. and when mr schulz visits iran tomorrow, he should not only focus on the economic interests, he should also mention them, but he should also make a few remarks about this flagrant violation of human rights. and one last phrase, the united states applying this method, has crime in the united states decreased at all?
madam president, the repeatedly wrong choices of the united states and the failure of the european union to pursue a credible common foreign and defence policy have not covered the democratic deficit of the assad regime, have not prevented the terrible civil war in syria, and have therefore allowed the giant isis to cause thousands of victims, immense destruction and a major humanitarian crisis. with the hypocritical and coercive attitude of turkey and the involvement of russia, the crisis is escalating. russia has started bombing syria, in my estimation, with the consent of the united states. now, with the violation of turkish airspace by a russian fighter jet, nato is convening an emergency meeting, and it's being referred to as a dangerous situation. i think we're being willfully blind again. turkey is bombing kurdish civilians every day, its army occupies a member state of the european union, its planes and fleet violate the airspace and territorial waters of the republic of cyprus every day and we all pretend not to see. ankara cannot solve the problem because it is practicing state terrorism against its own citizens and against its neighbours. it's part of the problem. however, nato is not reacting and the european union must not give in to the blackmail of erdoğan, who is therefore demanding more and more to fulfil the commitments he has made. the european union must proceed with the convening of an international conference leading to an immediate ceasefire and a transitional period with a road map for democratic elections, under the supervision of the international community. the deployment of a peacekeeping force is necessary to protect the population and to ensure the gradual safe return of refugees.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy in turkey has gone for a short walk. it is accepting foreign refugees and we recognize that, but at the same time, for a generous price, it is clashing vertically and relentlessly with the kurds. the council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey. there are indeed, today, more than ever, positive possibilities for a solution. but a solution does not mean that cypriots, all cypriots, do not have the right to reside wherever they want, in any part of cyprus, and there is no solution without every cypriot being able to buy whatever he wants, whenever he wants, in any part of cyprus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the cypriots cannot live in a solution where they are allowed to live wherever they want in the rest of europe, except in their own country. this is a message to my friend, spokesman and leader of the turkish cypriots, mustafa akıncı. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the question is "blue card". mr. haciyorgyu, do you think mustafa akıncı, as good as he is, can do anything without erdoğan's approval?
answer "blue card". i am a leftist and i believe, yes, in the potential of peoples, in the potential of communities, in the potential of people representing a group. i believe, yes, that one can resist turkey, one can resist any occupying power. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the situation in the community, and i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the situation in the community. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, why have we reached the point where the refugee problem is a threat to europe? why did we wait five years to open our eyes to see the drama of millions of people? why did some people arm and turn their backs on isis, to the point of beheading citizens from western countries? unfortunately, europe is taking the same position with turkey, which is violating the human rights of its own citizens, has strange relations with isis, claims territory in syria under the pretext of creating a neutral zone, bombs the kurds and continues to occupy 37% of the territory of cyprus. if mr erdoğan really wants turkey to become a member of europe, which we really want, europe must send a clear message that the principles and values of the european union must be respected, calling on turkey to fulfil its obligations towards europe. otherwise, expediency and hypocrisy will again prevail, with painful results.
madam president, in this chamber, in the course of this debate, i have heard many times that turkey is a strategic partner of the european union. i would like to address the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a country which daily insults and writes on its soles the principles and values of europe can it be called a strategic partner of the european union? how can turkey be a strategic partner of the european union when even on the issue of terrorism its role was suspect; when it exploits everyone and everything? to allow the planes to hit isis, he hit and destroyed and leveled the kurdish villages that are actually resisting isis. today, as we speak, and i am addressing all the member states, a member state of the european union, cyprus, is occupied by turkey. how would the honourable members feel if turkey or some other country had actually brought the suffering it has brought to cyprus and kept their country under occupation? the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe.
madam president, i am reading directly from the last report on turkey, which was voted on overwhelmingly by this house just a few months ago. it includes the words ‘as soon as the set criteria have been fulfilled, to start negotiations on the judiciary and fundamental rights and on justice, freedom and security’. i repeat: ‘as soon as the set criteria have been fulfilled’. now, given the comments about the negotiations on cyprus, i will answer the question about the turkish cypriot leader, mr akinci. he has an extremely limited role to play, given that he is always under the certain rule of turkey and erdoğan, and i would reiterate a phrase from my turkish cypriot friend, an editor of a turkish cypriot newspaper in the occupied part of cyprus, mr sener levent: even for a bird to fly in the occupied part of cyprus, it needs to have the licence of the chief commander of the turkish troops. and – the last word – our values in europe are in our interests.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support and approve the timetable for the 2017 parliamentary sessions as it stands.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the this protocol concerns the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on the general principles for the participation of the republic of tunisia in union programmes. in recent years, tunisia's economy has deteriorated significantly, both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main trading partner. in this context, it is very important that the tunisian issue be made an eu priority, with the eu making concrete commitments at economic and investment level to support the tunisian economy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution aims to extend the eu-tunisia interconnection and the country's participation in horizon 2020. as a party we have expressed ourselves many times in favour of the horizon 2020 programme as we believe that with the necessary reforms it can really work positively and through research and innovation support smes, benefit society and serve the needs of the people. however, the overall objective of the eu's cooperation agreements with third countries is to oblige countries to implement specific neoliberal economic policies. for these reasons, and in respect of tunisia's right as a sovereign state to decide on its course, we have decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is proposed to increase the threshold for small claims falling within the european small claims procedure from the current amount of eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. this new threshold will not be of much importance to consumers, since most of their claims do not exceed the amount of eur 2 000, but it is a significant improvement for smes.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the since 2007, the european small claims procedure has been in place, with the aim of simplifying and speeding up the adjudication of small claims in cross-border cases and reducing costs. however, there were areas where the regulation could be improved, which the new commission regulation now seeks to implement. the ep report accepts the new proposals put forward by the commission as they are seen to help the whole process. the aim is to protect and help consumers and smes to have easier and cheaper access to justice. in particular, with the increase in the claim threshold from eur 2000 to eur 10000 many smes will now be able to use this procedure. the proposal to use electronic means of communication and the obligation for courts to use videoconferencing, teleconferencing or other means of distance communication will also help to reduce both the time taken to complete a procedure and the costs, particularly for consumers and smes. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. it is recognised that emissions of pollutants to the atmosphere have decreased significantly in recent years, but that at the same time air pollution levels remain problematic in many parts of europe and that citizens are still exposed to air pollutants that may endanger their health and well-being.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the main objective of this proposal is to establish emission limit values to control the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter into the atmosphere from medium-sized combustion plants as minimum standards for the protection of the environment and eu citizens. the aim is to improve the feasibility of the directive's implementation so that it can be an important tool for improving air quality in the european union without imposing undue burdens on society and the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. however , we believe that smes do not have the administrative capacity of larger companies to adapt and carry out all these necessary processes . moreover, the major part of the air pollution is not only the responsibility of large industrial plants, but also of the world's major economies (usa, china, etc.) and it is these that must be burdened with reductions.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and casein salts intended for human consumption and repealing directive 83/417/eec. the proposal is part of the general food law aimed at the free movement of safe and healthy food, thus making a significant contribution to the health and well-being of citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the this is the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, inviting the commission to resubmit the proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or to replace it with a new proposal. it is important to note that union agencies which are fully self-financed and to which the financial rules laid down in the framework financial regulation do not apply should, for reasons of consistency, adopt similar rules where appropriate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the doubling of the capacity of the northern pipeline is a response to the union's inability to address effectively the shortcomings of its energy security. however, the main problems with energy supply are in the south of europe and not in the north. today, many are expressing concern about the strengthening of the nord stream. but what should really worry the union is that there are still members who are isolated in the south. the commission has also taken the view that the energy efficiency of the member states is a matter for the member states themselves. the commission must also be concerned that these developments are marginalizing the southern pipeline and that the commission must realize that it must make greater use of domestic energy sources. however, it continues to overlook the role of the recently discovered deposits in cyprus, as well as those in the eastern mediterranean and the wider mediterranean and north african region. we expect the union to support energy investment in the eastern mediterranean, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop lng production. we also call on the commission to draw up a comprehensive strategy for the development of renewable energy sources and to ensure that prices are affordable for consumers. if that happens, nobody has to worry about the development of the nord stream.
mr president, what i must stress is that we must all be objective and honest in this chamber. at least what i have been hearing from everyone since the day i was elected as a member of the european parliament, from the european parliament, from the european commission, from the commissioner responsible, from everyone, is that the european union must become energy self-sufficient, self-sufficient, that there should be decoupling, that there should be many sources of energy supply, that the european union's energy supply should not be held hostage and controlled, and that we will try to ensure all of this. i leave it to the individual judgement to say whether all this is ensured through nord stream 2. i have to say that the commissioner has rightly said today that the european union must have many sources of gas supply. but how is this accomplished? this is the time of crisis, the time of decisions, the time of proposals. we have proposals. a good suggestion is to tap into domestic sources of supply. i believe that the eastern mediterranean and other regions are suitable for the european union to exploit and to become as self-sufficient as possible and not dependent on one or two sources of energy. i believe that the eastern mediterranean offers, also through cyprus, which is a member of the european union, an alternative energy supply arm, using cyprus, israel, egypt and greece. i think that the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals in the future. i think that we should also focus on solutions which do not make the european union a hostage in energy matters now and in the future. i believe that we must move objectively, with proposals that have a present, a future and a perspective, and one such proposal is finally to use the eastern mediterranean in the right direction and to invest in energy infrastructure for the benefit of the european union, for the benefit of european citizens, for the benefit of energy supply and energy self-sufficiency for the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market . in recent years, significant progress has been made in the integration of retail payments in the union, in particular in the context of union acts on payments. the revised union framework for payment services is complemented by regulation (eu) 2015/751 of the european parliament and of the council. this regulation introduces, in particular, rules on the imposition of interchange fees for card transactions and elements in the speedier achievement of a genuine single market for card payments.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on payment services in the internal market concerns the harmonisation of rules throughout the territory of the union's internal market, while liberalising these services. this is the third report which reviews the existing rules on payment services, an eu policy which we have always been wary of, because it is based precisely not on the smooth operation of payment services and the functioning of rules on payment services, but on the logic that when a market is liberalised it automatically becomes more smooth. although the report itself was very technical in nature, we abstained, since on the one hand the simplification of both card and online payments is to the benefit of consumers and smes. on the other hand, the liberalization of payment services opens the door to a kind of shadow banking system, which is becoming even more complex to control by the legislator.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution calls on the commission to closely monitor the transposition of directive 2014/17/eu on credit agreements for consumers relating to residential immovable property (mortgage credit directive) in all eu member states. the commission is also called upon to launch legislation to harmonise mortgage loan terms and debt settlement procedures with a view to strengthening consumer protection across the eu, including the possibility of introducing credit transfers in lieu of payment in all eu member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution on the death penalty, inter alia, calls on the eu and its member states to ensure that the special session of the un general assembly on the world drug problem in april 2016 will consider the use of the death penalty for drug-related offences and condemn its application. at the same time, it welcomes and further encourages the activities of ngos working towards the abolition of the death penalty worldwide.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster in hungary, five years after the accident, stresses the importance of involving local authorities, citizens and civil society in the decision-making process on the disposal of hazardous waste and in the design of risk management measures. the commission is also invited to further develop the concept of a pan-european industrial disaster sharing mechanism, in full respect of the 'polluter pays' principle, in order to cover the potential costs beyond a high level of mandatory financial guarantees.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution rightly stresses the importance of increased participation of women in the design and implementation of the framework after 2015. calls for greater financial support for women's rights organisations, policy-making and capacity-building measures to cooperate and for increased participation of grassroots civil society organisations, and in particular women's organisations, in stakeholder consultations at all times and at local, regional, national and international levels.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report calls on the member states and the commission to raise public awareness of equal pay for men and women and the pension gap, as well as direct and indirect discrimination against women at work at european, national, regional and local level. the commission is invited to establish a european year to combat the gender pay gap.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the harsh neoliberal policies hit all working people, but working women are crushed. over the past decade, the gender pay gap has remained almost flat, from 17.5% in 2008 to 16.4% in 2012. in the light of this stagnation, it was considered that the existing directive had reached its limits and needed to be updated. it is positive that the report recognises inequalities, calls for intensified efforts to combat undeclared work and precarious employment, proposes concrete measures to ensure stronger rights for men and women and even proposes sanctions for large companies that do not comply with their gender equality obligations. however, what is overlooked in the report is that gender equality cannot be understood in the context of the neoliberal policies promoted daily by the eu. however, despite the individual problematic references in the report (e.g. the use of the european semester to combat inequalities and ensure equal treatment), the text contains many positive references which cannot be ignored. that is why we voted against the report.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a grave mistake for this house to see this as another suicide attack. the hundredth death of the kurdish people forces us to look at where this country is heading after the blood of so many dead, and with so many more dead in recent months between turkish forces and the kurds. the european parliament must discuss this matter in depth, as an emergency, today. i do not take the floor as someone who wants to do turkey a disservice. on the contrary, we will all benefit from a timely and thorough discussion of the matter. the division that is brewing in the country can push it towards chaos and we must reverse that course. the expression of solidarity with the turkish people and the one minute of silence we have not observed should not be an excuse for avoiding a full debate. the aim must be to avoid, after the arab winter, a possible turkish winter. no one knows what that could mean.
a question with a blue card. mr president, since the debate is constantly about self-criticism of the member states of the european union in relation to refugees, do you not feel in this chamber that it is only the european union, the european commission, the european parliament and the european council that are fighting day and night for refugees, while other countries, whether america, russia or the arab countries, have so far not given a penny, nor have they been made aware of, nor have they been mobilized, nor have they supported this effort? and at the same time i would like to ask to what extent, given these facts and the history that has been made, can turkey today be considered a reliable partner to cooperate with even on these issues?
madam president, at the next un climate conference we must reach an agreement which must be implemented by all. but to do that, we have to stop the commercialization of the land. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. unfortunately, the volkswagen scandal has demonstrated what we all know, that large multinational corporations, with the complicity of certain governments, promote their own selfish interests at the expense of society and public health. this is not an isolated incident. it is for this reason that strict control measures must be taken immediately and that the interests of people and the environment must be put above the interests of multinational companies. secondly, the european union, and particularly the rich countries, must take the lead in finally implementing the commitment to create a green finance fund for developing countries, because only then will these countries be able to adapt to the new climate changes. it's the only way we'll have any hope of saving the planet.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ taking into account the council's draft, the resolution of 9 july 2015 on the european agenda on security, as well as the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we supported and adopted the council's draft.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the draft amending budget concerns the revision of the provisions for traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections in favour of the united kingdom and their financing, which have the effect of changing the way in which contributions to the union budget are paid between member states. the report stresses that draft amending budget no 6/2015 in all its elements has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and that its impact on the revenue side is only a change in the distribution of contributions between member states. the council's draft amending budget no 6/2015 is hereby approved.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against this technical adjustment as it concerns the reallocation of resources resulting from the inflow of higher own resources into the union funds in 2014, which means that member states' contributions to the union budget can be reduced.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the established view is reiterated that, without prejudice to the possibility of mobilising payment appropriations for specific budget lines using the flexibility instrument, without prior commitment appropriations, payments resulting from commitments which were mobilised at an earlier stage using the flexibility instrument can only be calculated above the ceilings.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report welcomes the commitment made by the member states at the informal european council of 23 september 2015 to mobilise eur 1 billion to respond to the humanitarian situation of migrants and refugees, and calls on the member states to extend and continue their commitment to provide the necessary funds in the coming years. it also stresses that if additional support is needed during the current year to deal with the migration and refugee crisis, parliament will be ready to accept further mobilisation of the flexibility provisions provided for in the multiannual financial framework.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this draft amending budget is relevant to the refugee crisis and proposes a series of measures through an increase of 401.3 million in funds to be allocated to the asylum, migration and integration fund (100 million), to frontex, europol and easo (1.3 million), and to the eu's special fund for the syrian crisis (300 million). the gue/ngl tabled amendments, which were not voted in favour, on the role of frontex and europol, which we disagree with. for us, the answer to the refugee crisis is not to make europe a fortress by strengthening borders, but to strengthen humanitarian aid in terms of protecting refugees coming to the eu and the support that can be given to promote development in the refugee countries. we have voted against the amending budget, however, because the funds for strengthening the asylum and syrian crisis funds are very important in dealing with the refugee crisis.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on legal affairs, the waiver of the mep's immunity is approved.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the governing council of the european fund for strategic investments of 2 october 2015 on the appointment of the deputy executive director, and having participated and followed the hearing in the committee on budgets, hereby approve the appointment of the deputy director to the efsi.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the governing council of the european fund for strategic investments of 2 october 2015 on the appointment of the executive director, and having participated and followed the hearing in the committee on budgets, hereby approve the appointment of the director of the efsi.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly points out that the eu is on track to meet its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction and renewable energy targets. it emphasises that significant improvements in energy intensity have been achieved through more efficient buildings, products, industrial processes and vehicles, and that the european economy has grown by 45% since 1990. it also stresses that the 20-20-20 targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, energy from renewable sources and energy saving have played a key role in promoting this process and preserving employment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the at the next climate conference we must reach an agreement that can be implemented by all. to achieve this, we must stop the commercialisation of the land. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. putting the interests of people and the environment above the private interests of multinationals. it's the only way we can save the planet! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change is a very good one. it is stressed that the 2015 protocol should be legally binding and aim at phasing out greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the eu is called upon to work with international partners to this end, providing examples of good practice. it stresses the importance of keeping human rights at the heart of climate change action and providing assistance to the poorest countries. it also stresses the need to fully respect the rights of local communities and peoples vulnerable to the effects of climate change. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is also calling on turkey to take the necessary steps to ensure that the refugees are returned to their homes and to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the refugees are returned to their homes. the criminal acts against the kurds are being perpetrated by those who want to perpetuate their presence in power, while at the same time undermining peace and democracy in the country. with the upcoming elections, it is clear who is behind the bombings. how many more must be murdered in turkey for the union to react? unfortunately, the delay in the publication of the commission's progress report on turkey reveals the trade-off between the people and the flexibility of the union's declarations on human rights. our position is clear: turkey must fulfil all its contractual obligations as a candidate country, respect the human rights of its citizens and fulfil all its obligations under the cypriot convention.
the commission mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur and i support with all my strength this important step by the european union in the abolition of roaming charges. it is a very important achievement both for the european union and for european citizens, but much more so for society, because there was really a great distortion here and in this way we are essentially correcting an injustice that has existed for so many years. but another important area of concern for the european union - and i take the opportunity of the commissioner's presence to mention it - is the issue of the internet. there are countries in the european union that are isolated and insular, such as cyprus, malta and possibly other regions of the european union that pay high internet costs. it is being exploited by the telecommunications companies and i believe that my intervention should be taken seriously and regulated so that there can be a reasonable cost for using the internet. my proposal is that in small countries such as cyprus, malta and other island regions there should be free wifi zones, free use of the internet. and it is a great challenge for the european union, with the support of the small countries, to start implementing free and open internet. the internet is a human right, and the european union has a duty to provide it to all member states and all european citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, there is no doubt that we agree that the 2.5 million refugees must remain in turkey, and that is the issue we must focus on. but i would like to ask mr pittella whether he agrees that the refugee issue is clearly a refugee issue, and therefore turkey and all countries must show sensitivity and in no way allow this issue to become an element of exploitation and blackmail towards the european union, as it seems from turkey, to serve other objectives. so do you agree that for turkey, refugees are refugees, but also that on issues relating to integration, the application of principles and values, the opening of funds, respect for the ankara protocol, turkey should implement and fulfil its obligations, without having to subject the european union to blackmail and threats from turkey, which should have supported the european union on refugee issues? it is a matter of sensitivity, it is a matter of humanitarian crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off) )
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i have listened to the whole debate, mr president, for about three hours. in all honesty, i tell you that if i were a refugee, an immigrant, and i were listening to this debate, i would literally try to find my way to the aegean, to go and commit suicide: from the inexpensive rhetoric of defending the rights of refugees, to the speech of mr juncker, who did not offer any substantive proposal for an immediate solution to the problem. i'll say two words about turkey: i fully understand the willingness to cooperate, but from the willingness to cooperate to going so far as to say that turkey is a safe country after the bombing - not to mention the hundreds of other dead from other bombings or attacks by turkey against the kurds - the centenary of the hundred dead in ankara, to call this country safe in order to drive the problem out of our own backyard, is going too far.
s&d), in writing. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. turkey started accession negotiations ten years ago under political pressure. without the minimum guarantees, it was granted candidate country status with the expectation of improvement in the future. we're ten years after that. the policy has failed and the situation has worsened: erdogan is seeking to re-establish the ottoman empire as a neo-sultan, oppressing the peoples within turkey (turks, kurds, alevis etc.), cooperating and supporting the modern bloodbath plague of humanity, the so-called islamic state, persecuting and imprisoning political opponents and journalists who simply express their views, choosing bloodshed with the kurds while years ago he promised human rights until he was firmly in power, continuing the illegal occupation and colonizing the european territory of the republic of cyprus by refusing to withdraw its occupying troops, circumventing the decisions of the european courts, not applying its obligations to the eu regarding cyprus... the list of anti-european behaviour is endless. however, the eu plans to reward erdogan with a few billion euros, visa exemption for turkish nationals, speeding up the accession process and opening new funds, in exchange for erdogan treating refugees humanely. this transaction is a disgrace to the eu itself.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report refers to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec setting a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry having regard to the proposal from the commission to the european parliament and the council and the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development, the commission is invited to resubmit the proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or replace the text.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement which ensured that switzerland applied measures equivalent to those provided for in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the proposal for a council directive repealing directive 2003/48/ec. the european parliament, taking into account the commission proposal to the council, calls on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the report refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. in view of the council's draft and the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we approve the council's draft and call on the council to inform parliament if it intends to deviate from the text adopted by parliament. it also called on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals were implemented in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ the the report refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in belgium. in view of the council's draft and the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we approve the council's draft and call on the council to inform parliament if it intends to deviate from the text adopted by parliament. it also called on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals were implemented in a timely manner.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in poland. in view of the council's draft and the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we approve the council's draft and call on the council to inform parliament if it intends to deviate from the text adopted by parliament. it also called on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals were implemented in a timely manner.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and linked travel arrangements amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 90/314/eec.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and reward the initiative of the commission and the european parliament to move towards the abolition of roaming charges
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is not too vague and has legal loopholes. as regards roaming charges, whereas the whole debate started with a request for full abolition, the text finally tabled by the council refers to abolition of charges only for a specific volume of 'fair use', to be determined by the commission. but what is more problematic and dangerous is that it gives companies the ability to come in afterwards and charge their customers extra fees for not covering their total costs. the lack of reference to the need to ensure net neutrality is also a particularly negative development, which means that the public nature of the internet is at risk. we believe that telecommunications and the internet are public goods to which everyone should have equal access. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new regulation is in fact aimed at enhancing the union's competitiveness. the big companies will be the beneficiaries of the liberalization of the telecommunications market. the commission has also proposed that the new regulation should be amended to include the possibility of the member states to grant the commission powers which are currently held by the member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report emphasises that exports at eu level are tools of external trade policy and serve a number of wider policy objectives. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through controls of the items and activities that are being or could be used improperly for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture regulation contributes to the eu's longstanding policy of the global abolition of the death penalty and the prevention of torture.
in writing. ‒ regarding the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, the european parliament, having regard to the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, endorses the commission proposal as amended.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the second report of the committee on budgetary control, gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control, gives a discharge to the director of the eit in respect of the implementation of the budget of the institute for the financial year 2013.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and having regard also to the second report of the committee on budgetary control, grants the director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, which we consider to be appropriate and we vote in favour of.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament, having regard to the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the eu for the financial year 2013, and the second report of the committee on budgetary control, does not grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament report stresses that a food crisis is very likely to follow this ebola epidemic. it therefore calls on the member states, the commission and the international community to invest in long-term development to ensure that rural households and future food security in west africa are no longer threatened. it also urges all parties concerned to promote health training for citizens, focusing on the issue of traditional customs which are incompatible with combating the spread of the epidemic among the population.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report calls on the commission to ensure that the information provided to consumers under the eu car labelling directive is accurate, relevant and comparable. we believe that labels should be based on emission and fuel consumption values corresponding to real driving conditions. we are concerned about the discrepancy between the co2 emissions reported in the official test results and those measured under real driving conditions. we also call for a rapid agreement on the correlation with the wltp standard for the average co2 emission targets for the fleet as a whole.
the commission mr president, i believe that today it is fair and objective for everyone to commend the two co-rapporteurs, josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez, because they have really done a great and important job with an excellent job, trying to serve the objectives of the european union; the european union is a political union of citizens, society, the economy and business. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. it is the european council which has proved too weak in action, too weak in sensitivity, to serve the objectives of the european union. i think it is truly incredible that we are trying to use the budget to help the refugee crisis, to create new jobs, to boost competitiveness, to support small and mediumsized enterprises, to create growth, progress and prospects, and the council is standing in front of us. i think it is really incredible that we are trying to get the european union out of the crisis and in this effort we are not all united and not all fighting. and something very important: if there is anything else we have to deal with in the european union today, it is bureaucracy. i take advantage of the presence of the vice-president to tell her that bureaucracy, which costs tens of millions, must be stamped out, and we must be aware that what we are voting for today is not all going to businesses and citizens, because a lot of it goes to bureaucracy, and i will be the happiest of meps if next year we come here and we have succeeded in creating more jobs, more smes and less bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we must face up to the political impasse. twenty-one years later, it feels like oslo is dead. the occupation continues and consolidates on the ground. how can you make equal-scale statements when the fully armed israeli army, settlers and right-wing israelis are being covered up by even the netanyahu government? when they kill a child in jerusalem for throwing a stone or a girl in hebron on the way to english class, or a doctor protecting his countrymen in hebron? when a hundred thousand palestinian residents of jerusalem are in danger of losing their rights by staying outside the wall of shame? indeed, how would people in the member states of the union react if they were excluded from their historical monuments, their places of worship, if they were robbed of their crops, if they were humiliated on a daily basis? the european union and the international community must take responsibility before it is too late. without the occupation being lifted, there can be no peace. there will be a third and fourth intifada as long as the occupation lasts. mrs. mogherini, do you want peace? you must put pressure on israel, freeze the association agreement, stop funding israeli companies from the horizon 2020 programme, immediately ban the arms trade with israel. enough with the impunity! enough of your silence and complicity! (applause)
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report will be the mandate for parliament's negotiating team for the ensuing tripartite dialogue on the 2016 budget. this procedure is always carried out for the budget and the decisions taken in the trialogue are not returned to parliament for final approval. the council has therefore adopted the budget for the year in question, and the commission has also adopted the budget for the year in question. of course, the whole procedure and the size of the budgetary appropriations are set out in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. compared with the previous year, it cut commitments by 3.5 billion and payments by 2.9 billion. we voted against this report because our position on the budget is firm and there is no doubt that the 2016 budget is another austerity budget. unfortunately, the same trends are being followed by the multiannual financial framework and the dominant neoliberal forces in the council, the commission and parliament.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ it is recommended that a joint committee of experts be set up by parliament and the council to analyse the overall functioning of justice in the eu and to make proposals for its improvement. it is also recommended that all eu courts should now be subject to review by the european commission for the efficiency of justice under the same conditions as the courts of the council of europe member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament has accepted that derogations from the ban on inshore trawling in the black sea should be regulated at member state level with the right of in-depth scrutiny by the commission. this approach is differentiated from that for the mediterranean, as these are different basins and even in the case of derogations, as in the mediterranean, the conditions laid down in the geasar recommendation for the granting of derogations in the black sea are much less stringent.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it was proposed to reject the commission proposal because it was considered that the proposal for a regulation was almost impossible to implement because there are no longer any border controls in the eu agricultural sector. the reintroduction of such controls between member states would reverse the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against this report, because it proposes to reject the commission's proposal, which envisages a series of measures restricting the ability of member states to prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of the introduction of gmos in their territory. our long-standing position is that the sovereignty of the member states and the ability to decide on key issues affecting them is non-negotiable, and especially on issues concerning the health and well-being of their citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report stresses that the free movement of safe and healthy food is a fundamental aspect of the internal market and makes a significant contribution to the health and well-being of citizens and to safeguarding their social and economic interests. differences between national laws on the safety assessment and authorisation of novel foods may hamper the free movement of such foods, leading to legal uncertainty and conditions of unfair competition.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the revision of regulation no 258/97 on novel foods is urgently needed in view of the scientific and technological developments that have taken place in the food sector since 1997. our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. it must be made clear that the consumer and the provision of consumer safety are priorities rather than the functioning of the internal market and competitiveness. the european parliament's report is moving in this direction, and that is why we voted in favour of the text.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report stresses that member states should be fully informed about their performance in relation to their specific emission reduction commitments. where member states are in danger of failing to meet their obligations, measures should be provided for to identify the problem in good time, so as to give countries the possibility to take corrective measures.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report aims to ensure that the national emission ceilings set in directive 2001/81/ec for 2010 will be in place until 2020 and also sets new national emission reduction commitments. it obliges member states to update their national air pollution control programmes regularly and lays down provisions on penalties for infringements of the national provisions adopted under the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the agricultural sector, particularly in cyprus as in other eu countries, is already facing enough problems and it would not be the most appropriate time to burden it further with targets for further reduction of ammonia and methane. for the moment, the limits are satisfactory. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european citizens' initiative has its roots in the assembly and was designed as a means of enabling european citizens to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. the underlying idea was that this instrument would be put into effect to increase the mobilisation of citizens and to strengthen the awareness of the european family at international level in particular. the european parliament considers that, in order to ensure that citizens make proper use of this instrument of participatory democracy and to avoid its possible misuse by private interests, it is important and essential to increase the transparency and quality of controls on the financing and sponsorship of the european citizens' initiative.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly supports the creation of a quality label for high quality seafood products bearing the adriatic-ionian label, in order to increase the competitiveness of the sector and provide consumers with a certification guaranteeing the quality of fishery and aquaculture products. it is emphasised that the development of aquaculture and marine farming can play an important role not only in the recovery of species diversity but also in the growth of the economy in the adriatic and ionian region.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this report concerns the third in a series of eu macro-regional strategies for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). the report includes elements that further promote synergies for cooperation between participants and economic empowerment of the countries of the region. the report stresses the principle of multi-level governance, calls on the commission to strengthen the involvement and initiative of local authorities and communities, and urges the issue of asylum policy for the areas directly affected. it is also positive that it mentions the need for a single european strategy on asylum. we voted against the report because it supports a number of measures which are important for the social and economic development of the region, which is currently facing enormous territorial, economic and social problems.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report welcomes the establishment of a task force on the better implementation of eu funds. welcomes the establishment of the 'structural reform support office', which officially started its work on 1 july 2015 and will provide technical assistance to member states to implement structural reforms and country-specific recommendations more effectively;
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because, instead of promoting solidarity to extend growth and prosperity to tackle economic and social inequalities in the member states, as defined by cohesion policy, it is limited to the objective of aligning cohesion policy with austerity policies. it is important that cohesion policy is not aligned with the single economic governance framework, otherwise the member states will be blackmailed into following the harsh austerity measures envisaged by the european semester so that their financial support is not interrupted. in that case cohesion policy will be completely neutralized. we also oppose the attempt to make cohesion policy a tool of the europe 2020 strategy, which envisages strengthening competitiveness, flexible forms of employment and privatisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. support public investment and finance projects that respond to the needs of society and contribute to the creation of new quality jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report highlights the importance of cohesion policy instruments and resources to maintain the level of european value-added investment in member states and regions, and to foster job creation and improve socioeconomic conditions, particularly where investment has been significantly reduced as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the own-initiative report concerns article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions (cfr) for the esi funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, known as macroeconomic conditionalities. article 23 allows the commission, where it considers that the macroeconomic conditions are not met, to request a reprogramming of the partnership agreement (ppa) and, if the state does not respond, to request a suspension of funding. the report stresses the need for single economic governance and calls for close cooperation between the esf and the european semester. it also stresses the punitive nature of any suspension of payments and calls on the commission to use its discretion to propose suspension of payments where and when necessary. we therefore voted against the report because, instead of promoting solidarity to extend development and prosperity to tackle economic and social inequalities, it advocates the introduction of blackmail measures against member states in the financing process.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic crisis has deepened inequalities in the union, while tough measures have deregulated labour relations, dismantled the welfare state and sold off public wealth. the poverty rate is rising steadily, the numbers are calling out the truth: 123 million europeans live below the poverty line, of whom 26 million are children and young people. in cyprus alone, despite the implementation of tough austerity policies, one in four people is facing poverty and child poverty stands at 27%. the same problems are facing greece and spain and portugal and ireland, although the latter two countries have theoretically left the memoranda, while the same policies continue. it is no accident that 1% of europe's population now owns a third of its wealth. as wealth is concentrated in the hands of a few, the gap and inequalities increase. cohesion policy should therefore not be a tool of the eu 2020 strategy, which provides for the promotion of competitiveness, flexible forms of employment and privatisation. it is important that cohesion policy is not aligned with the framework of single economic governance, otherwise the member states will be blackmailed into following the harsh austerity measures envisaged in the european semester, so that their financial support is not interrupted. in that case, cohesion policy will be completely neutralized. we need to promote a new policy of social development, support public investment, finance projects which respond to the needs of society and help to create new quality jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission madam president, while everyone has been heard to support the position that tourism is a real asset and adds value to the economy, growth, new jobs and, in general, to the prosperity of countries, while tourism is generally acknowledged to contribute 5% to the gross national product of the european union, my country, cyprus, which is predominantly tourist, contributes over 10% while it contributes so much and so richly to the european union, to growth and to the economy, and actually gets very little back, it is the poor relative of the european union. i think that the commission's words and declarations are not enough. i agree with her that tourism must be a new challenge for a new perspective, but at the same time it must be possible to support tourism through funds and projects, because tourism serves exclusively and by definition the european union's position for growth, for new jobs, for prosperity and furthermore for the promotion of all those goals and objectives that we have set at times but never implemented. i have therefore done more than just listen to the commission's words! we really expect the commission to respond and to implement these objectives.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report stresses that the european police college must be given sufficient powers to properly coordinate law enforcement training at eu level and to implement the principles established by the law enforcement training programme.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the global financial crisis that erupted in 2007-2008 brought to light numerous speculative activities, significant regulatory gaps, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products in the financial system. the union has therefore adopted a number of measures to make the banking system stronger and more stable, including by strengthening capital requirements with rules on improved governance and supervision and with resolution schemes.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the motion for a resolution notes and warns against the obvious undermining of the fundamental right to privacy and the protection of personal data, when any information on human behaviour is considered potentially useful to combat future criminal acts, which necessarily leads to a mass surveillance mentality, whereby every citizen is treated as a potential suspect and which leads to an erosion of social cohesion and trust. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is asked to continue to monitor developments in this area and the follow-up to the recommendations made in the resolution.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european semester process aims to ensure comprehensive economic policy coordination at eu level through a combination of macroeconomic and fiscal surveillance tools, which is essential for monitoring convergence and managing the interdependence of member states. the high unemployment rates in most member states are a cause for concern. in order to increase employment rates, there should be a shift from taxing labour to other sources.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the spirit of parliament's report is that there is no other way but to continue and deepen existing policies, most notably that of budgetary discipline. parliament welcomed the fact that the number of countries whose high debt was noted by the commission had decreased, but it did not note that the countries on the memorandum list did not receive annual macroeconomic recommendations from the commission. the report also welcomes the commission's white paper on deepening emu and insists on the continuation of budgetary discipline, although it points out the difficulty faced by the southern member states in recovering from the (violent) internal devaluation to which they are subject. the report does not substantially criticise the commission's report on the completion of emu, but instead supports all those economic policies which are destroying both the social fabric of the eu member states and any hope for sustainable social development. it briefly reaffirms the eu's commitment to austerity policies and to further alignment of member states' economic policies with the eu.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution calls on the member states to combine eu funding, in particular through the european social fund, of their national policies to tackle long-term unemployment with appropriate national funding. it stresses that the budgetary constraints faced by some member states (in particular those under budgetary adjustment programmes) should not prevent the recommendation from being implemented swiftly. calls on the commission to explore possibilities for rapid access to eu funding and to mobilise additional resources where possible, as was done in the case of the youth employment initiative. the need to provide adequate funding in some member states to strengthen the administrative capacity of employment services is emphasised.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the resolution on the reintegration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market because it underlines the need to reintegrate the longterm unemployed into the labour market through policies that address all longterm unemployed and not just those registered. unfortunately, more emphasis is being placed on individual employment contracts and individual development rather than on public investment in job creation, but these strategies are still important, and we recognise this. the resolution also stresses that any programme for the reintegration of the longterm unemployed must be drawn up in close cooperation with the social partners. this, according to the resolution, translates into the member states calling on employers to participate actively in the provision of employment to the longterm unemployed, and on the member states' employment services to assist smes in setting up such guidance programmes. finally, the resolution calls for the financial and administrative capacity of public employment services to be improved so that they can play a central role in the implementation of this proposal, and invites the commission and the member states to assess how to support specific in-work training programmes, as well as business development and investment projects that have created sustainable quality jobs for the long-term unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report concerns the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles, in the field of civil aviation. the commission proposes to address the issue of rpas flight operations in a future european policy framework. it provides that any regulation adopted must favour the development of the commercial rpas market and at the same time the public interest.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the despite the european commission's announcements on tourism, tourism remains the eu's poor relative, receiving little support and assistance from eu funds. i agree with the commission's recent position: 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination - a new policy framework for tourism in europe'. however, in order to make tourism a major and main driver of growth, actions to support the tourist product are needed. my country, cyprus, is a predominantly tourist country, a major contributor to gdp, which has so far benefited little from european policies. i believe it is time for the eu to take a serious look at tourism policy in the eu and to draw up plans to support, renew and upgrade the tourist product, particularly in countries with comparative advantages such as cyprus and the other mediterranean countries. the eu and its economy will benefit from the further development of tourism in europe.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report as it makes general proposals on promoting common european strategies and products to boost the development of quality, sustainable and social tourism. it also stressed the need to promote coastal and maritime tourism and to combat seasonality, promote training and education and combat undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution supports the commission's action to rapidly develop a global, performance-based flight tracking system that will allow air navigation service providers to locate a public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote areas.
s & d) and the i am sorry, mr president, but i would like to say that i am disappointed that, while we are talking about strengthening democratic accountability and legitimising the democratic process with the european parliament at its core, the commission is amending the instruments of economic governance without the legislative input of the european parliament - and this is not a matter of opinion, it is a fact. i now move on to the subject of development. while we have macroeconomic conditions which are favourable, the investment element is missing and the serious and long-term investment element is missing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and using euro area recommendations to ensure that the level of investment in the euro area is the right one is a good tool. i am also addressing a colleague who i heard say that the european south has been flooded with money from the european central bank or something. i think he's not watching. the european south, my dear colleague, is flooded with the souls of the persecuted who die and of children who are washed up by the sea. so wake up now!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, for another year we are here to discuss the annual development review. we should discuss how the budgets of the eurozone member states will actually be transformed to serve the so-called free market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. in some member states they even say that unemployment has fallen. at the same time, however, precarious work is now the rule rather than the exception. poverty is increasing in europe and the distribution of wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of the richest. the gue insists that the european semester should be abolished. the member states must regain the right to formulate their budgetary policies, which are strongly social in nature. the stability pact must also be abolished. we need a real pact for employment and growth based on social criteria which will be beneficial to the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we insist that public investment should be made to create sustainable and quality jobs and to support the welfare state.
the commission madam president, i believe that no one doubts or disputes that there must be support and solidarity on the refugee question. i believe that no one in this chamber feels that we should not stand in solidarity, and i believe that the european union, the member states and the european citizens themselves are the only ones who have stood in solidarity on the refugee question. and i believe that the refugee question is not just a european union issue. this is an international issue. the european union cannot be the only one to show sensitivity and solidarity and all the other countries to be indifferent. the european union cannot at this moment make every effort to find resources to support the refugees and not set up an international refugee support fund. the refugee problem is an international issue, one that concerns the united nations and all countries. it is not possible that the arab countries we are talking about are known for their huge investment funds and do not have a single euro or petrodollar to support the crisis response. i therefore think it is unfair to the european union when many people say that it has not done what it should have done. it could be better. but the only one that has acted on the refugee issue is the european union itself. i think it is unacceptable, and i am not saying this out of prejudice or for any other reason, that countries like turkey, instead of taking the obvious for granted with regard to refugees, as other mediterranean and european countries do, should try to exploit them. he's putting the refugees first to get a trade. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region, to help the people of the region. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. of course i agree. it is not just that the european union has given examples and taken excellence in solidarity. we are a union of solidarity, and that is why we support the european union. you are absolutely right that it is the united nations that should take the initiative, but other countries, which are silent at the moment and are not at the centre of the discussions, should at least have contributed financially. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. i therefore call on the president to make a proposal to other bodies to deal with the refugee problem with sensitivity, and if they do not, they should be exposed and the european union should not be exposed to a problem for which it has done everything.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2). this is a welcome continuation and improvement of earlier programmes. in agreement with the itre and imco committees, the libe committee will be solely responsible for the parameters relating to data protection and fundamental rights. we support the report because interoperability is a means of modernising the public sector.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our firm view that the public sector must be modernised while promoting reforms that are in the interests and needs of society. there are many positive references in the legislative text, such as the need to modernise public administration with the use of new technologies, to ensure the protection of personal data in the process of information exchange, to take into account the negative impact on smes in order to ensure more favourable conditions for them, to ensure the public nature of the internet, to simplify procedures in order to reduce the administrative burden on citizens, to combat social exclusion and to promote gender equality. however, as stated, the establishment of the interoperability programme should contribute to the implementation of the initiatives developed under the europe 2020 strategy and the digital agenda, policies with which we have expressed our disagreement on many occasions. the proposal for information exchange is also problematic as it is not clear at what point it will stop. however, we voted in favour of the text because of the positive references, but also because of the need to reform the public sector to improve the quality of services in order to better serve people.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is an important step in the modernisation of european electoral legislation, which it is primarily the member states' responsibility to adopt and implement. the resolution brings together and modernises important issues such as ensuring equal representation of men and women, the right to vote for all citizens wherever they are, the representation of all eu citizens by the members of the european parliament, the definition of electronic and online voting, and the implementation of transparent and democratic procedures, etc. the proposal to set a threshold of 3% to 5% as an electoral measure is also noteworthy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerns changes to the electoral law for the european elections, which also requires unanimous agreement at council level. we voted against the report because it contains a number of elements which affect the way in which elections are organised and conducted in the member states, which amounts to a restriction of the sovereign rights of the member states. such reform amendments require particularly close consultation. the report also highlights the role of european parties and the election of members of the european parliament by region, a position which undermines the role of national parties and promotes the depoliticization of elections and the concealment of the fundamental problems faced by the people in their countries. finally, the attempt to harmonise the rules for holding european elections ignores a number of specificities which exist in each member state.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the european parliament's resolution on the future air transport package. we believe that the aviation package to be presented at the end of this year should develop the european aviation sector, while respecting the eu's environmental commitments and objectives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the joint resolution because it did not include our basic positions concerning our opposition to all forms of privatisation and liberalisation of the european air transport sector. at the same time, it ignores the need to develop employment and improve working conditions to protect workers and consumers, and the need to take measures to protect them in the event of the bankruptcy of an air carrier. the resolution calls for the implementation of a series of directives and policies, such as the single european sky, which provides for the regulation, management and planning of the airspace of the member states in a common european one, which significantly limits the sovereign rights of the states, while at the same time contributing to the circumvention of the foreign policy of the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's first report on the state of the energy union unfortunately confirms what we have known. there is still no substantial action to remove the energy isolation of states from energy networks, to achieve energy independence and supply, to address climate change, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to promote renewable energy sources and to reduce the union's energy dependence. the commission's failure to take the necessary action to combat the energy poverty that is afflicting more and more people in europe is particularly worrying. it is no longer enough to point out the problems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the union's domestic energy sources can and must play an important role in breaking the energy isolation and ensuring equal and cheap access to energy for all. we therefore continue to call on the commission to exploit the potential created by gas deposits in the eastern mediterranean, to support energy investments in the region, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop lng production. it is equally important that we develop immediately a realistic, comprehensive plan to support and promote renewable energy sources. but above all, we need to redefine our energy policy so that the needs and interests of people, consumers and local communities are at the centre.
the commission i believe that energy is a matter of the utmost importance for the european union, for the member states, but even more so for the citizens of europe. the key to energy is energy costs, and it is widely acknowledged that energy costs in the european union are very high. we pay a very high price for energy in europe. in order to reduce energy costs, which should be our first objective, we must immediately break free from the monopoly energy situation in the european union by exploiting our own potential reserves or deposits of natural wealth, which exist in many regions of the european union. i would say to you in particular that it is time to exploit - and you, mr commissioner, must take initiatives as vice-president - the energy reserves in the eastern mediterranean. the european union has a golden opportunity to invest in this area, both through the juncker plan and through other initiatives in this direction, for its own benefit first and foremost. i believe that we can exploit these reserves, large european companies, giants, are already there and in this way reduce energy costs, which will be to the benefit of both businesses and citizens. at the same time, the european union has a responsibility to reduce energy poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. the use of renewable energy sources today, where the cost is low, particularly in countries with comparative advantages in solar, wind, biofuels or other renewable energy sources, is our imperative task and we must do it, mr vice-president.
mr president, a lot has been said about energy supply security. the european union has been blessed with some energy reserves in the eastern mediterranean, particularly in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. the government of cyprus, acting in line with european union interests, promotes an energy coalition with greece and cyprus from the european union on one side, and with israel and egypt on the other – something that might not be possible if the two (israel and egypt) were perceived to be cooperating directly. what is needed now is a more decisive position, a real push with determination from the part of the european union, in order to secure this model of peaceful co-existence and cooperation between eu member states and states outside of the european union. and finally, yesterday we had an announcement: a big british gas group is acquiring a 35% stake in the consortium with noble, and i would like to get your comment on that, because the european union needs all its member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the strategy for improving the legislation implemented by the union institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to delete from the legislation in force acts which no longer serve any purpose. we therefore support the report, the proposal for a european parliament and council decision.
in writing. ‒ given the technical nature of this 'clearance' procedure, which also contributes to legal clarity, we vote in favour of the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the context of the programme to improve the adequacy and efficiency of the regulatory framework, the commission stated that it had carried out a 'screening' of the acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the aim was to identify acts which could be repealed at the end of the transitional period provided for by the treaties. the commission has completed its evaluation of legal acts in the area of freedom, security and justice and has put forward three proposals for the repeal of some 20 legal measures. we therefore voted against these reports relating to the above acts, as they contribute to legal clarity by indicating which acts are considered obsolete due to their temporary nature, but also to the fact that they have been replaced by later acts under the lisbon treaty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the since the objective of this regulation, namely the repeal of certain obsolete union acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters falling within the schengen acquis, cannot be better achieved at union level, the union may not adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. we therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ given the technical nature of this 'clearance' procedure, which also contributes to legal clarity, we vote in favour of the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the context of the programme to improve the adequacy and efficiency of the regulatory framework, the commission stated that it had carried out a 'screening' of the acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the aim was to identify acts which could be repealed at the end of the transitional period provided for by the treaties. the commission has completed its evaluation of legal acts in the area of freedom, security and justice and has put forward three proposals for the repeal of some 20 legal measures. we therefore voted against these reports relating to the above acts, as they contribute to legal clarity by indicating which acts are considered obsolete due to their temporary nature, but also to the fact that they have been replaced by later acts under the lisbon treaty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ some acts adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, even if they have not been repealed, have become redundant as their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ given the technical nature of this 'clearance' procedure, which also contributes to legal clarity, we vote in favour of the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the context of the programme to improve the adequacy and efficiency of the regulatory framework, the commission stated that it had carried out a 'screening' of the acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the aim was to identify acts which could be repealed at the end of the transitional period provided for by the treaties. the commission has completed its evaluation of legal acts in the area of freedom, security and justice and has put forward three proposals for the repeal of some 20 legal measures. we therefore voted against these reports relating to the above acts, as they contribute to legal clarity by indicating which acts are considered obsolete due to their temporary nature, but also to the fact that they have been replaced by later acts under the lisbon treaty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the proposal aims to approve the exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged committee of the convention for the conservation of southern hemisphere tunas (ccsbt). the signature of this instrument of international law will enable the eu to become a full member of the enlarged ccsbt, in which it has enjoyed the status of a cooperating non-contracting member since 2006. the council therefore submits this proposal for a decision, which we agree with.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the proposal from the commission to the european parliament and the council and to the additional report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and considering that, according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the above proposal. the commission is also asked to submit its proposal again if it intends to make substantial changes or to replace it with a new text. that is why the report is important and why we support it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the cypriot economy is composed of very small and mediumsized enterprises for which the common european market has played a very negative role. we believe that the relocation directive infringes workers' labour and collective rights by allowing companies to set up in member states with lower taxation and social benefits, thus depressing social security and workers' wages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the report on the one hand promotes and facilitates the relocation of insurance companies throughout the union, with the obligations of companies remaining in the home country. on the other hand, it does at least guarantee the rights of the host state to act in the event of fraud and with criminal sanctions, not just administrative ones.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we also believe that the relocation directive is a serious infringement of workers' labour and collective rights, as it allows companies to move to member states with lower taxation and social benefits, thus depressing social security and workers' wages. the insurance industry is just one such example where the above applies. the report on the one hand promotes and facilitates the relocation of insurance companies throughout the union, with the obligations of companies remaining in the home country. on the other hand, it does at least guarantee the rights of the host state to act in the event of fraud and with criminal sanctions, not just administrative ones. the abstention we have taken is based on the fact that the report has some positive elements, but it does not improve the directive to the extent that we can vote in favour of it, since we are totally opposed to the directive to which it refers.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the child poverty is rooted in family poverty. it is a fact that one fifth of the total population of the eu is under 18 and that despite the commitments made, more than one in four children are now at risk of poverty or social exclusion. it is also important to mention that women are at greater risk of poverty than men and that addressing women's poverty is not only important as an end in itself, but is also vital to efforts to reduce child poverty. so the report is very important and we support it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report largely reflects the positions of the left. it calls on the member states to make a genuine commitment to developing policies to combat child poverty that focus on eliminating the factors that affect child poverty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people against the dangers of drugs and alcohol. reducing inequalities, especially when it focuses on child poverty, is a very sensitive issue for us. this is all the more so when the report highlights the interconnectedness of wealth redistribution policies, the effectiveness of government income support, labour policy and the situation of parents in the labour market as the main factors in promoting or combating poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with particular emphasis on child poverty. more than one in four children are now at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu. the eu's objective - and the focus of this report - is to promote the social inclusion and well-being of children by fighting poverty and improving their living conditions. the right to a decent standard of living, particularly in the economic times in which the eu member states are living, is a major objective of community policy. the report highlights the need for the european commission and the member states, in the light of the weakening of public services, to establish a child guarantee for which there will be a dedicated fund, so that every poor child has access to free health care, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition, as part of a european integrated plan to combat child poverty. the overall focus of our policies to tackle child poverty, if they are to be effective, must aim at improving the quality and living conditions of each family.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the reducing inequalities, especially when it focuses on child poverty is a very sensitive issue for us on the left. this is all the more so when the report highlights the interconnectedness of wealth redistribution policies, the effectiveness of government income support, labour policy and the status of parents in the labour market as the main factors in promoting or fighting poverty. the report, reflecting many of the positions of the left, recommends that member states make a genuine commitment to developing policies to combat child poverty that focus on eliminating the factors affecting child poverty, as mentioned above. it also calls on them to increase the effectiveness, quantity, amount and scope of social support aimed specifically at children, but also at unemployed parents. combat the phenomenon of the working poor (through unemployment benefits and an adequate minimum income). promote labour legislation that ensures social rights, including adequate statutory minimum wages in accordance with national practices and collective agreements, and that provides greater security for families and combats precarious employment, while promoting employment with adequate social rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the cohesion policy is one of the european union's most powerful tools for combating inequality and supporting territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in all european societies there are groups and communities facing structural exclusion and segregation from the majority of society, and lacking access to even basic infrastructure and services. in addition, they are very often disproportionately affected by poverty, unemployment and health problems. important report and important issues are being discussed.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is a fairly detailed report which adequately analyses the issue of marginalised communities. referring to marginalisation as a social phenomenon arising from economic inequalities within societies and exacerbated by budget cuts and austerity measures, puts the issue on the right footing. the report also proposes a number of social measures and, more generally, has a socially oriented approach to tackling social inequalities. there is no great negative in the report, although there are some contradictions. the report is quite satisfactory in its analysis and in the measures proposed, so we shall vote against it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report emphasises the social role and the objectives of cohesion policy in relation to marginalised communities. among eu citizens, there are groups and communities facing structural exclusion and segregation from the rest of society and with limited to no access to basic infrastructure and services. social inequalities, the report says, have been exacerbated by the current economic crisis, budget cuts and austerity measures and have become huge social problems that cannot be tackled by the limitation of national policies to support marginalised communities. we voted against the report as it proposes a series of measures to strengthen and social integration of marginalised groups and asks member states to use the funding of the european humanitarian investment funds and focus on job creation and participation in society, in order to combat poverty and social exclusion. the report also makes a significant reference to the need to combat xenophobia and racism.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report calls on the eu to promote and support the principles of corporate social responsibility enshrined in the un universal declaration. the eu is called upon to promote in the un forums the adoption of trade policies which provide effective incentives for compliance with these principles. for example, by setting conditions for public procurement. it also calls for the eu to strengthen its role and participation in the regulatory working groups of un bodies. the content of the report is very important and we are taking it positively.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the committee on foreign affairs has recently been trying, through reports and debates, to promote the idea of the eu as a global player at political level. this report is part of that framework. the presentation of the problems facing the region highlights the need, as the report sees it, for the eu to coordinate its efforts in the un and the position of the eu on the security council, positions with which we disagree. the report also promotes the idea that the high representative should have the responsibility for coordinating member states and that they should be positioned in the light of the eu's foreign policy and interests. the report also has several positive points, such as criticism of the choice of the agency's secretary-general, but also of the presentation of issues that need global solutions and cooperation between all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report deals with the eu's role within the un system and its upgrading potential, with a view to achieving a common foreign policy and promoting the eu's leadership on the world stage. the report's attempt to strengthen the eu in the way it is put is a direct contradiction to us, since it implies a weakening of the sovereignty of its member states. the european union is unfortunately trying to turn itself into an expression of the foreign policy of all the member states, where it will define and restrict the policies of the states. the eu, in its coordinating role in foreign policy, will be responsible for the member states' compliance with its guidelines. the position of the eu on major issues such as the ukrainian and russian sanctions, the palestinian issue and the trade agreement with israel and, above all, the setbacks on the cyprus problem and turkey's accession process, makes us certain that the development of a common foreign policy within the framework of today's eu means the consolidation of the sovereignty of the member states and the expansion of intra-imperialist contradictions. we cannot therefore support such an approach. however, we did not vote against the report because we consider it very important and necessary to promote eu cooperation with the un on all issues.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we stress our clear position that we are against tax evasion and tax avoidance wherever these unacceptable and totally reprehensible acts are carried out. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. but this in no way justifies a level playing field in all tax matters which in the end is likely to create injustices and problems, even distortions and damage to particular states. the attempt to level off taxation issues, particularly corporate taxation, is a typical case. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we therefore consider it non-negotiable to leave taxation policies to the member states, which will have the freedom to define their tax policies and manage their economies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the fact that we are discussing the budget today, that we have reached agreement on the budget, is due, without any exaggeration, to our two rapporteurs, mr fernandes and mr deprez, and to the wise and effective guidance of our committee chairman, mr arthuis, without underestimating the important contribution of mrs georgieva's vice-president and the european council. we have shown that by joining forces within the european union we can succeed. this budget can be written down in the history of budgets and of the european parliament as the budget which, in adverse economic conditions, with enormous emergencies arising from the refugee crisis, from greece and from other factors, managed to preserve its social and developmental character, managed to save programmes which are particularly accessible to european citizens, to the member states, to businesses, such as horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, cosme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i must stress that the permanent enemy of the european parliament is bureaucracy. we must finally prove that every euro that leaves the budget goes where it should go. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank is a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the european central bank is not a good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, for the left, health and safety at work is above all an inalienable right of workers, which cannot be understood without the active and substantial contribution of the workers. we cannot imagine that more than four thousand workers die in the union each year as a result of accidents at work. the participation of workers cannot therefore be limited to declarations, but must be ensured at all levels of decision-making, from the level of the enterprise to the level of the state, at which the trade unions of workers and the social partners have direct and active participation. new forms of work must also be taken seriously in the health and safety debate, to ensure that jobs are of quality and provide for both health and safety at work and social security for workers, their permanent employment and participation in collective bargaining and collective agreements. finally, we consider it a very positive development that the parliament's report makes no mention of the link between life expectancy and work, something which is unfortunately overemphasized in the commission's report. as a leftist, we will not tire of fighting against this anti-working-class measure, which takes away the right of workers to enjoy their old age and their pension as they wish.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we express our sorrow for the victims of the terrorist attacks in paris, tunis and beirut and we stress the need for the immediate defeat of isis. but we must also realize the need for an immediate end to foreign interventions and wars in the arab world. because it is foreign intervention and socioeconomic inequalities that created the monster of terrorism which, to this day, is unfortunately still supported by the west and its allies. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. we must also not allow immigrants, refugees, muslims to be targeted for what is happening. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the violence of the syrian regime, which has been the target of numerous attacks and attacks in recent years.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly notes that the pledges by the member states to finance the trust fund for africa, syria and the united nations agencies, as well as to support refugees, were reaffirmed at the informal meeting of heads of state and government. it is also noted that further funding needs and efforts will be required to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to address the challenges of hosting the unprecedented number of refugees in europe's cities and regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report refers to the adoption of the commission's proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement funding in the 2016 general budget of the eu, beyond the ceiling of heading 3, with an amount of eur 1.504 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures under the european action programme on migration. we agree with the above proposal.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i believe that by supporting this proposal positively, the capacity of the solidarity fund to be fast, flexible, efficient and to serve the objective of bringing the eu closer to its citizens and society is greatly improved. the main mission of the solidarity fund is to mobilise in emergency situations when natural disasters occur in the eu member states. the fund is essentially intended to provide financial cover for citizens who suffer damage from natural disasters. the political message is strong and clear. it is a message of solidarity that is put into practice by providing the necessary assistance to the citizens of the eu member states in difficult and critical moments when their immediate financial support is required. these initiatives, by the commission and the european parliament, are upgrading the union's social policy, creating a real sense of eu solidarity among european citizens and giving the impression of a better europe. a europe that will support citizens directly and effectively when they need financial support and support.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the budget is rightly focused on tackling the unprecedented refugee and migration crisis and on promoting competitiveness and economic growth, job creation and supporting and developing small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship throughout the european union. i believe that in order to achieve these objectives, it must be easier for governments and businesses, and for citizens, to make use of the programmes, to make funds more absorbent and to make the budget available to citizens. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. our positive vote on the budget underlines that it is everyone's responsibility to make the eu budget for 2016 a success. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution states that the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, and for promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products, in order to promote a resilient economy. we agree with the resolution, which will be forwarded by the president to the council and the commission.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report contains positive elements in terms of the crackdown on tax evasion and the existence of tax transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu is not all unified and there are huge differences in many areas, particularly in information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit of the member states. the same mistaken reasoning for a single tax rate in the eu, a single vat rate, single taxes and prices on consumer goods and many other absurdities should be imposed. in the economy you cannot impose flat-out regulations which will eventually lead to distortions and incalculable damage to some economies. i believe that the eu has no legitimacy to impose such policies which not only do not help economies to develop, but at the same time create the impression that the eu is imposing unfree measures on the economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eac/cfsp agrees with the substance of the taxe report, which contains useful proposals for greater tax justice and highlights the negative impact of austerity on tax justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political responsibility for tax dumping in the eu has not been fully assigned and the report does not call for the extension of the present mandate of the committee. access to council, commission and member state documents was not satisfactory. the multinationals only responded after repeated calls from taxe and no legal basis for sanctions was established and therefore the companies were not adequately investigated. the commission also notes that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the report does not propose any measures on the substance of the main issues beyond those already proposed by the commission. tax rulings must be made public and tax secrecy laws must be adapted. there is no commitment to try to increase the corporate tax base.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the terrorist attacks in paris make it imperative that all eu member states take coordinated action to prevent radicalisation and combat terrorism. the resolution makes specific proposals for a comprehensive counter-extremism strategy, which should be implemented mainly online, in prisons and through education and social inclusion. the resolution stresses the need to strengthen intercultural dialogue through education systems in disadvantaged areas in order to prevent marginalization and promote social inclusion. the resolution is important and we support it unreservedly.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the dati report, although improved in some respects (some of the 95 amendments of the sda/cfsp were accepted by libe), nevertheless maintains its negative orientation. the logic of repression, authoritarianism and the restriction of individual freedoms prevailed. a real war against terrorism and violent extremism will be one that, on the one hand, dismantles euro-atlantic support for armed fundamentalist groups in the arab world, and on the other hand, addresses the socioeconomic factors that lead to despair (poverty, unemployment, underdevelopment, impoverishment, racism, marginalization), as well as the political factors that accumulate anger and resentment among the muslim world. we therefore vote against the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the following recent developments in the field of terrorism, culminating in the tragic death of 130 people in paris last month, the urgent need for new measures to combat and prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations has become clear. it is certain that a coordinated european effort will be more effective than a decentralized effort made by each member state individually. i therefore support this resolution in order to build a new basis and a general overall framework within which we can move in the near future to combat terrorism and its various branches actively. understanding the consequences and the growing threat of violent radicalisation and extremist ideation by european citizens, and taking into account the fact that some 5 000 citizens are recruited annually to the ranks of the islamic state, i consider it necessary to follow improved practices with a direct focus on prevention and an ultimate aim of achieving international peace and security. such practices can include the immediate and effective exchange of information, the coordination of strategies between states, the modernisation of national policies and the focus on sources and means of influence such as the internet. of course, security requires the eradication of phenomena like isis by any means.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the we have adopted today the report on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which contains specific proposals for a comprehensive strategy to combat extremism, which should be implemented mainly online, in prisons, and through education and social inclusion. the phenomenon of fighters travelling from europe to different parts of the world to participate in jihad is not only intensifying, but is expected to continue in the coming years. moreover, the recent terrorist attacks in paris, beirut, mali and tunisia show that it is not only europe that is the target of terrorism, but the entire international community. the disintegration of iraq, syria, libya has led to a surge in terrorism and radicalization. in view of the increase in this phenomenon, repressive measures are no longer sufficient. the most important thing is to fight terrorists where they are trained. if the international community is to seek to eliminate terrorism , there must be honesty between us . we need to turn to those who have armed isis militarily, economically and politically.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are certainly in favour of the need for the immediate defeat of isis. the report proposes a number of measures to suppress and restrict individual freedoms. the recommendations of our political group to produce a report focusing on the analysis of the factors leading to violent extremism and making substantive proposals for prevention have unfortunately proved fruitless. the report proposes, among other things, measures such as strengthening the security forces (europol), cooperation with third countries such as saudi arabia, where massive human rights violations are taking place, a requirement for 'militarisation' of volunteers and operatives in informants and increased controls on the internet that will lead to the guardianship of the internet. we therefore voted against the report because the measures proposed are against democracy, freedom and human rights. a real war against terrorism and violent extremism will be one that dismantles euro-atlantic support for armed fundamentalist groups on the one hand, while addressing the political and socio-economic factors that lead to social impoverishment and marginalization and thereby provoke anger and indignation among the muslim world on the other.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly emphasises that workers, including those in the public sector, are entitled to the highest level of protection in relation to health and safety at work, which must be ensured regardless of the size of the employer, the type of job, the underlying contract or the member state of employment. the commission is also invited to develop work-specific strategies covering all forms of employment, under the eu regulatory framework for safety and health at work. the need for clear and effective rules in the field of renewable energy sources is emphasised.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission's report on health and safety at work is one of the most reactionary reports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. it also integrates this report into the framework for simplifying european legislation (refit), which already has indications that it is a direct attack on social rights, since it will leave matters to the discretion of the member states, but will be able to direct them through its economic policies and decisions. the parliament's report is a very good own-initiative report, which places particular emphasis on supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and involving workers' organisations in the consultative groups on r & d decisions at both the state and company level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work, such as the introduction of the right to work, the right to health and the right to social security, and the right to social security. the commission's own-initiative report is much better than the commission's report, and we shall vote in favour of it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the for us on the left, health and safety at work is above all an inalienable labour right, which cannot be understood without the active and substantial contribution of the workers. we cannot imagine that more than 4,000 workers die in the european union every year as a result of accidents at work. the participation of workers cannot therefore be limited to declarations, but must be ensured at all levels of decision-making, from the level of the enterprise to the level of the state, where the trade unions of workers and the social partners will have direct and active participation. our main concerns were included in the report. we are also very pleased that the parliament's report makes no mention of the link between life expectancy and work, something which is unfortunately overemphasized in the commission's report. as the era/eap we will not tire of fighting against this anti-labour measure, which takes away the right of workers to enjoy their old age and pension as they wish. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
s&d), in writing. violence against women is a long-standing social problem affecting all member states of the european union without exception. having succeeded in establishing the protection of basic human rights through the eu charter of fundamental rights, such as the right to human dignity (article 2) and the right to non-discriminatory treatment on grounds of sex (article 21), it is time to deal with the effective implementation of measures at national and pan-european level to effectively reduce this phenomenon that plagues today's society. the 2014 european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) pan-european survey highlighted that a large proportion of women who have suffered physical and sexual violence do not turn to the police or other victim support organisations. this leads to confusion and the lack of data necessary to identify the true extent of these violent crimes within european territory. i would like to stress that despite all the legal efforts that have been made so far, such as the eu directive 29/2012 and the istanbul convention, there is still much to be done to significantly reduce violence against women, which affects not only the victims but also their social environment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the valletta conference has been another poor show. there has been no substantial diversification in the union's refugee policy and it has again been decided to further strengthen the military solutions and repressive guard mechanisms that are turning europe into a fortress. the attempt to achieve a fair distribution of refugees and the objective of creating legal and safe routes to europe has again failed. on the other hand, the xenophobic approaches of some eastern european governments are of great concern and must be resolutely opposed. solidarity is not a one-way street to be used as a last resort when we need it. the refugee crisis is not just a problem for the host countries, greece, italy and the other mediterranean member states, but for the whole union. that is why we must step up humanitarian aid and urgently promote a fair system of redistribution and resettlement of refugees.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament resolution calls on the commission and the council to ensure that parliament continues to be closely involved in the preparations for the 10th ministerial conference, is kept immediately informed and, if necessary, is called upon to give an opinion during the course of the ministerial conference. the commission is invited to continue to advocate, vis-à-vis the other wto members, the strengthening of the parliamentary dimension of the wto (world trade organisation). it also called on wto members to ensure democratic legitimacy and transparency, thus strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the wto. we are in full agreement with the approach of the resolution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report, despite the rhetoric it uses in favour of development, actually promotes neoliberal policies. it promotes the liberalization of trade so that the big multinationals can penetrate everywhere in the developing countries. the only people who benefit from global trade are the eu and us giants, represented by the wto, and not the people and developing countries as presented in the report. our approach is in the exact opposite direction, namely to adopt trade rules that addressed the important issues facing humanity, those of poverty, climate change, the right to work with social rights and the fight against social inequalities. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the it is noted that besides colombia and peru, ecuador is one of the world's largest producers of bananas. the commission is therefore asked to ensure that trigger volumes are fairly respected. the commission is invited to use the possibility of suspending the duty exemption for bananas imported from these countries. the trade dg and the government of ecuador are requested to provide convincing answers to the questions and concerns raised before the vote on the accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the joint motion for a resolution calls on the commission to ensure the development, exchange and dissemination of scientifically based best practice and to support innovation and research in the development of new methods and technologies for animal welfare. the president is therefore rightly instructed to forward this resolution to the council and the commission.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to open 'corridors' so that students from war zones, in particular syria, iraq and eritrea, can be admitted to universities. it also calls on the eu and its humanitarian agencies to systematically integrate education and protection of children into the overall emergency response cycle and to provide flexible multiannual resources for protracted crises. we support the resolution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution is unfortunately not far removed from the philosophy of the dominant and majority neo-liberal circles in the eu. while the resolution refers to the education of children in emergencies and stresses the need to protect children, noting the un guidelines and mentioning the millennium development goals, it nevertheless insists on promoting and supporting private initiative in education, thus privatizing not only schools but also universities and colleges. we believe that education is a commodity that belongs to every people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the work of the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of education in the member states, and has recently launched a new programme for the education of young people. for the above reasons, abstention was the appropriate position in this resolution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the education of children in emergencies and long-term crises stresses the need to protect children, notes un guidelines and mentions the millennium development goals. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. it insists on promoting and supporting private initiative in education, thus privatising not only schools but also universities and colleges. for us on the left, education is a commodity that belongs to every people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the work of the european parliament. there the state must integrate education into its recovery planning, not sell off its infrastructure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to adopt and implement, in coordination with the member states and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, a soft approach to data and information requirements for beneficiaries in the application and reporting process for eu funding under shared management, and to encourage the exchange of good practices. the commission and the member states are invited to increase the use of the multi-currency approach, taking into account the needs of the beneficiaries. we are in fact supporting the resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr pittella, you have described turkey as a 'pole of stability' and you know that before the ink has even dried on the agreement in the european council, where all the countries unanimously decided to support the refugee, turkey and, within those countries, greece and cyprus, turkey itself, leaving the european council, sent its planes to violate the airspace of both cyprus and greece, with hundreds and thousands of such violations a year, while at the same time turkey expresses regret that its own airspace was 'allegedly' violated, while unjustly shooting down the plane that was fighting terrorism. you speak of a 'pole of stability' and i would like to know your position on this, if it would be fair, and european and ethically correct, for turkey, which has virtually no respect for the european union, to open any chapter, when turkey does not recognise a member of the european union and violates every principle of law in cyprus, and tell me what the rest of you would do, dear colleagues, even if a colleague whose country was not recognised by turkey, would agree to the opening of chapters ... (the president interrupts the speaker).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to say something to mr verhofstadt: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: greece has a lot of problems, which are also the result of decisions taken by the european union, and i think it needs support rather than complaints to the european parliament. i understand, first of all, that the agreement with turkey was mainly concerned with the management by turkey of the refugee flows. the european union has an obligation to underline that the suffering of the peoples of the region began when the united states and the member states of the european union decided how to teach and export democracy. when we talked about the coming arab winter, some people, even in this room, were cultivating the illusion of the arab spring. the commission must closely monitor the management of the billions to turkey. there are thousands of refugees living in standard facilities, but there are many thousands more living in really miserable conditions. today, in fact, there is a complaint that turkey, a few days after the agreement, has arrested 1,200 refugees and is trying to send them back to syria! the commission must react immediately. the agreement avoids a word about the crumbling democracy in turkey, while it refers to the opening of capital. cyprus is ready - and i say this with full knowledge of the facts - to contribute to this if turkey shows that it is also ready to support a solution in cyprus which will create the conditions for genuine cypriot independence, and this will be achieved if the solution establishes that the future is in the hands of the cypriots alone, based on the rules of the european union and the security provided by our presence within the union. the cypriots of the federal state have no need of any foreign guarantee for compliance with the rules of the settlement. i stress this because if we are close to a solution after many decades, we must not lose the opportunity because turkey believes that it must retain a role as guarantor or supervisor of the functioning of a member state.
the commission i do not think there is anyone who does not recognise that refugees are a big problem and that cooperation with turkey is needed. the european union must not support turkey and give it privileges to take for granted. the european union is also calling on turkey to fulfil its obligations towards the refugees. there is no one who doubts the suspicious and insidious role played by turkey, even in the creation of the refugee camp. and i really wonder: what has turkey done so far for the refugees? what's her role in the region? i have not yet realised whether turkey is really fighting isis and terrorism when it is actually fighting the kurds and shooting down a russian plane fighting terrorism, while it is violating the airspace of european union member states without the european union itself reacting! we are not going to allow the turkish authorities to continue to use the turkish language in the future, but we are going to have to make sure that the turkish authorities do not use the turkish language in the future. we want to believe that turkey will try to solve problems. unfortunately, it is still causing problems and all it does is ask for, without giving anything to the european union.
s & d) and the the problem, mr timmermans, is the problem of the flow of refugees, but we are here to discuss the opening of funds for turkey. and i speak slowly so i can have all your attention. these funds, which you propose to open to erdoğan, are funds which are frozen because turkey, among other things, violates the principles and values of the european union and is violating by illegally occupying one third of the republic of cyprus which is a member of the european union. i would therefore ask myself whether you would ever agree to open capital if turkey were to occupy illegally one third of your country's european territory. and, not to speak only of principles and values, are we giving a gift to erdoğan at the moment when he refuses to implement his commitments so far? these are the essential questions.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the report rightly points out that the development of innovative sustainable, environmentally friendly urban logistics strategies, including private and public actors, is of paramount importance in solving congestion and environmental problems in cities. it is noted that logistics must be based on sustainable modes of transport and calls for better optimisation of the supply chain in urban areas based on new, cost-effective modes of operation, technology and business model. the commission is therefore called upon to develop policies to encourage the freight transport industry to improve its fleet in an environmentally friendly way. i am not going to go into the details of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we vote in favour of the continuation of the work of the european parliament's special committee on tax rulings, which will continue under a new six-month mandate. the panel will examine the work of the european commission in the areas of state aid and taxation, member states' compliance with tax legislation, and will work on the ongoing work of international organisations, including the oecd and the g20.
in writing. ‒ we agree with the appointment of members to the special committee on tax ruling.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the directive 2003/48/ec is limited to the taxation of savings income in the form of interest on claims, with the exception of matters relating to the taxation of pensions and insurance benefits. at regional level, the directive applies to interest paid by a paying agency, for example a financial institution, a bank or an investment fund, which pays interest or ensures that interest is paid to beneficial owners established in the eu. the report by parliament deals with the information exchange agreement on the above matter with liechtenstein, leaving large windows for big investors and large companies. the european parliament was also asked, as in the case of the agreement between the eu and switzerland, only to ratify the agreement. in this sense, parliament could not give a real opinion on the agreement. but as acel we respected the decisions taken by democratically elected governments, so although we disagree on the substance of the issues, we decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report recommends that frontex and the european ombudsman cooperate closely to improve the protection of individuals from possible maladministration in the context of frontex activities, including when the agency carries out an operation across the eu's external borders through cooperation arrangements. member states and partner countries that have entered into cooperation arrangements with frontex are invited to cooperate effectively with the agency in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the complaints mechanism. requests that frontex provide publicly accessible information on the complaints mechanism in its annual general report; it also recommends that the number of complaints received, the types of fundamental rights violations, the frontex operations where the incidents occurred and the follow-up measures taken by frontex be recorded. it is emphasised that this information will help frontex to identify possible shortcomings and improve its working methods. in addition, it is proposed that provisions on the individual complaint mechanism be included in the forthcoming revision of the frontex regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the joint libe-peti report addresses the recommendation of the european ombudsman to establish a mechanism for individual complaints/complaints in relation to the infringement of fundamental rights by frontex. unfortunately, few of the amendments tabled by the european united left group regarding the independence of the mechanism from frontex, the possibility of anonymous complaints, and the need to promote specific measures for vulnerable groups [women victims of violence, stateless persons, lgbt] have been adopted. the important proposals of our group to recognise the infringement of fundamental rights by frontex operations were also rejected. our position is clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to apply the principle of subsidiarity in their national legislation. our basic position is to dissolve frontex and replace it immediately by mechanisms and humanitarian operations for search and rescue of refugees. for these reasons we did not vote in favour of the report but abstained so that the debate on improving the mechanisms for rescuing refugees could continue.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we agree with the report and support the position that mobility is not an end in itself but needs to be a right for all citizens. according to figures, soon 80% of europeans will live in cities. mobility should promote access for all, including persons with reduced mobility, to school, work, culture, leisure and health. it is also important that present and future urban mobility should and can rely heavily on eco-mobility and cooperation networks.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the urban mobility has increased rapidly in recent years and unfortunately this rate is projected to continue, reaching 82% of the population living in urban centres by 2050. this creates enormous problems on the roads, partly because of the use of private cars by the majority of citizens. the problem is particularly evident in cyprus where public transport is used by a very small number of citizens, mainly foreigners, while the vast majority use private cars, creating severe traffic congestion and air pollution. in the light of the recent developments in the field of transport, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the transport of dangerous goods by road. some of these measures, as the report itself very rightly states, are the use of alternative energy sources by avoiding the use of fossil fuels, but also the provision of incentives to citizens to use public transport such as buses, so as to counter the negative consequences mentioned above. the reduction in transport costs is a good example of this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the energy union strategy will have a decisive impact on people's lives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not enough to say that unemployment and poverty must be fought. we must support a social development policy which ensures that energy is a public social good to which everyone has equal access. to achieve this, we must ensure that energy remains outside the ttip agreement and that powers are not given to the commission at the expense of the sovereign rights of states. we must also stop talking vaguely about ending the energy isolation of the states and promote investment in strategic connections and public infrastructure for the benefit of the people. it is equally important to stop simply noting how domestic energy sources should be exploited and to support, among other things, the creation of a mediterranean gas hub in the mediterranean, with the potential for lng development. finally, we must stop funding nuclear power and promote a realistic integrated strategy to deliver the 2020 and 2030 renewable energy targets. i believe that the amendments tabled by the group of the european united left - nordic green left are aimed in this direction. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to say that there should indeed be a reference to the eastern mediterranean, because in the eastern mediterranean important natural gas deposits have been discovered and there is one member state, cyprus. we believe that it is important for the strengthening of the energy security of europe, and especially of southern and south-eastern europe, which today faces many problems, that these important resources be accurately recorded, and we therefore believe that the report should also focus on this region.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. we must all work towards that. it is inconceivable that the european union should be so energy dependent that it needs more than a billion euros a year to meet its energy needs from energy imports. the numbers are unflinching and relentless. it is not possible for it to be 90% dependent on crude oil, 66% dependent on natural gas and for some to oppose the policy of supporting the energy union. but energy independence and the energy union will not be achieved unless the european union itself exploits its potential, wherever it may be. i shall refer to our own example, cyprus. the european union is also committed to the development of the energy sector, and the european union is also committed to the development of the energy sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we support the report and believe that microcredit is not only working in developing countries but also in europe. however, in europe they must be seen first and foremost as an instrument of social policy which provides an opportunity for those in a difficult social situation. other support possibilities exist for promoting smes and innovative ideas. the eu definition of microcredit needs to be revised and adapted to today's realities. this also applies to the maximum amount of credit, which may not be sufficient in all eu countries. in all member states, the possibility of intermediation for the granting of microcredit to non-bank institutions should be provided. the assistance of experts in developing a business plan and the examination and follow-up of the business idea (training and mentoring) should be funded under easi. taking into account the improvements under easi and the proposals set out in this report, the continuation of the progress programme is generally recommended.
s & d) and the madam president, we are discussing economic and monetary union and, of course, we are discussing the euro. but this discussion takes us back years to the beginning of the financial crisis, when we were discussing public debt and, by extension, the risk of banks. i would therefore like to concentrate my remarks on one point only, namely the decisions and policies which are taken ex post facto, whereas they should be implemented ex ante. so today we are trying to complete the banking union from the back, with the third part of its architecture, the single deposit guarantee scheme, which was part of the original architecture of the banking union but was not implemented because there were political reactions. we all know where these reactions came from, in addition to any other problems of a technocratic nature. the socialist and democratic group has long insisted on the need to eliminate the discrimination against depositors which has worked to the detriment of particularly weak member states in economic crisis. today we have an admission from the protagonists, including the absent mr dijsselbloem, that mistakes were made. who made the mistakes? they've gone from being the lead actors to the lead actors. deposits are down in cyprus, people are getting poorer, greece is going through an unprecedented economic crisis. i want to say one last thing about the rules: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the draft council decision on the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because the participation of switzerland and other countries in cooperation on asylum matters, in a period of widespread humanitarian crisis, is absolutely essential. the report shall cover the technical modalities for the participation of switzerland in the work of easo and the way in which switzerland is supported by easo. switzerland will have an observer on the governing board (but will not be a full member).
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the technical ways in which switzerland will participate in the work of easo and the way in which switzerland will be supported by easo. we voted against the report because the participation of switzerland and other countries in cooperation on asylum matters, in a period of widespread humanitarian and refugee crisis, is absolutely essential.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement is a key contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican republic - taking on a strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and constitutes a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of the dominican republic is based mainly on agriculture, which accounted for an average of 11% of the country's gdp between 2000 and 2010. the dominican republic is a small developing island state which is making significant efforts to diversify and offers real potential for development, particularly in the areas of tourism and geothermal energy production. the agreement will boost tourism and help to strengthen bilateral relations in the field of trade and investment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports because, as the acp, we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries, despite our opposition to the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we voted in favour of the reports because, as acp, we are in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement makes a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu by acquiring strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and constitutes a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ as we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for third country travellers, we voted in favour of the reports, despite the fact that we deplore the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we voted in favour of the reports because, as acp, we are in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support and vote in favour of the draft council decision. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement makes a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago - taking on strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement - and constitutes a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will boost tourism and help to strengthen trade and investment relations, as the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and facilitate investment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports because as acer we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries, although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed as the council and commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we voted in favour of the reports because as acel we are in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we are voting in favour of the council's draft decision. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement is a key contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa - taking on a strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and constituting a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of samoa is one of the most dynamic of the pacific island economies. the agricultural sector employs two thirds of the workforce and accounts for 90% of exports. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including the samoan islands. the main areas of economic cooperation between the union and the samoan islands are currently the development of the private sector, the water sector and the development of tourism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports because, as the acp, we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries, although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we nevertheless voted in favour of the reports, as we, as acp, take a positive stance in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we are voting in favour of the council's draft decision. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement makes a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and grenada by assuming strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. with an economy heavily dependent on banana and spice exports, grenada has taken initiatives to transform and diversify its economy to a large extent. grenada has seen a sharp decline in the weight of the agricultural sector in favour of the services sector, mainly tourism and construction. despite the gradual development of tourism, this sector remains at a low level of development compared to other countries in the region. like all small island developing states, grenada faces numerous challenges due to its size, distance from markets, vulnerability to external threats and limited resources. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for businessmen, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between businesses.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports because, as the acp, we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries, even though we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed as the council and commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we voted in favour of the reports as we as the acp side are in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we are voting in favour of the council's draft decision. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the ultimate objective for deepening relations between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor - which has strong political significance under the cotonou agreement - and a complementary means for strengthening economic and cultural relations and a more substantive political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an opportunity to promote economic relations and tourism. tourism is precisely a key sector for the development of east timor, in which european citizens can be interested both as tourists and as investors. the eu is now the third largest trading partner of the pacific countries, after australia and china. the eu is, however, still the sixth largest exporter to east timor. the visa waiver therefore constitutes an additional incentive for european entrepreneurs and investors.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports because as a group we have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries. we voted against, although we have a problem with the procedure followed, because the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed as the council and commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we nevertheless voted in favour of the reports as we as the acre take a positive stance in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we vote in favour of the draft council decision. relations between the european union and saint lucia are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, known as the 'cotonou agreement', and by the celac-eu and eu-cariforum dialogues. this latter dialogue led to the establishment of various cooperation instruments, including the eu-cariforum partnership agreement (signed in 2008) and the caribbean-eu joint strategic partnership (2012).
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports as we as the acer have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries. however, we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we nevertheless voted in favour of the reports because as acel we have always maintained a positive attitude in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we are voting in favour of the council's draft decision. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement makes a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines - taking on strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement - and constitutes a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. in the economic field, saint vincent and the grenadines has experienced a difficult period, mainly due to natural disasters and the deterioration of export conditions for its sole agricultural product, bananas. the above has hampered the country's economic recovery and severely affected its tourism. however, saint vincent and the grenadines has had a positive socioeconomic development in recent years.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the reports as we as the acer have always been in favour of a general visa regime for travellers from third countries, although we object to the procedure followed, as the council and the commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the procedure followed, as the council and commission did not include the european parliament in the negotiations, we voted in favour of the reports because, as acel, we are in favour of a general visa liberalisation regime for travellers from third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we vote in favour of the draft council decision. the above short-stay visa waiver agreement contributes significantly to the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. over 150 000 eu citizens have settled in the uae and the vast majority have taken up opportunities for economic activities. some 1.6 million europeans visit the uae every year. in 2014, around 230,000 emirati citizens traveled to europe, mainly for business and luxury tourism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although in previous relevant votes we have taken a positive stance on the visa regime for travellers from third countries, we choose to abstain in respect of the united arab emirates due to the significant concerns raised about the situation inside the country in relation to the violation of fundamental human rights and the use of violence against dissidents, women, workers, migrants, etc.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we are not opposed to visa liberalisation for third country nationals but in relation to this report we have opted to abstain because of the significant concerns about the situation inside the country regarding the violation of fundamental human rights and the use of violence against dissidents, women, workers and migrants.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i give a favourable vote to the draft implementing decision formalising the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) - for which the committee on legal affairs is responsible under annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament - and eurojust. the memorandum of understanding (mou) aims to promote cooperation between eurojust and the edps in the context of their respective tasks.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and consider it positive. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures in question, but that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures. we believe that these adjustments of contributions should be dealt with as automatically as possible in order to avoid political interference in the agreed ways of financing the union budget and to minimise the discretion left to member states as to the timing of their additional contributions to the union budget resulting from adjustments to the gni.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the same resources enable brussels to finance itself, thus distancing itself from the member states and gaining economic autonomy. the commission has always been critical of this autonomy, because it allows brussels to bypass the interests of the member states and impose economic and other policies on them. that is why we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the same resources enable brussels to finance itself, thus distancing itself from the member states and gaining economic autonomy. this autonomy has always been something we have condemned as allowing brussels to bypass the interests of the member states and impose neoliberal economic policies on them. that is why we voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the request for waiver of the colleague's immunity.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the request for waiver of the colleague's immunity.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we agree with and support the report. we note that finland is planning seven types of measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: (i) guidance and other preparatory measures, (ii) employment and business services, (iii) training, (iv) wage subsidies, (v) business start-up grants, (vi) entrepreneurship guidance and services for new entrepreneurs, and (vii) compensation for travel, accommodation and removal costs. the report welcomes the measures to support entrepreneurship, which take the form of grants for business start-ups, entrepreneurship guidance measures and services for new entrepreneurs, and considers that these measures are more appropriate to be provided in combination to participants. in particular, the proposed measures for the creation of new enterprises which will help to promote entrepreneurship and services for young entrepreneurs are welcomed.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our constant policy to vote in favour of releasing funds from the globalisation adjustment fund because they are certainly a form of support for the dismissed workers. however, we have always made it clear that we do not consider all of these to be viable measures to protect workers. we believe that industrial policy must be long-term, state-supported and ensure that workers' support is not fragmented, as is the case here. the state's strategy must be based on long-term plans for continuing training and retraining of employees in various key areas of state investment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ it is our constant policy to overwhelm the amounts released from the globalisation adjustment fund because they certainly constitute a kind of support for the dismissed workers. however, we have always made it clear that we do not consider these to be viable measures to protect workers. for us, an industrial policy must be long-term, state-supported and ensure that workers' support is not fragmented, as is the case here. the state's strategy must be based on long-term plans for continuing training and retraining of employees in various key areas of state investment.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report, in view of the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the council regulation on the community trade mark.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although there was no vote in the plenary on the two reports by the committee on legal affairs, as the ordinary legislative procedure on the trade mark regulation is in the process of second reading, we voted against the amendment by the political group for a europe of freedom and direct democracy (efdd) which essentially called for the two reports to be rejected and for the whole process of reforming the legal framework for the protection of trade marks to be closed. as a group, we supported the legislative procedure because we believe that it extends the measures for the protection of domestic products and protects the name and specific characteristics of products against counterfeiting and illegal sale within the community.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although there was no vote in the plenary on the report of the committee on legal affairs as the usual legislative procedure on the trade mark regulation is in the second reading procedure, we voted against the amendment tabled by the political group 'a europe of freedom and direct democracy' (efdd), which essentially called for the report to be rejected and for the whole process of reforming the legal framework for the registration of trade marks to be closed. as a group, we have supported the legislative process as it extends the measures to protect domestic products, safeguarding the name and specific characteristics of products against counterfeiting and illegal sale within the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i agree with and support the report in view of the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although there was no vote in the plenary on the two reports by the committee on legal affairs, as the ordinary legislative procedure on the trade mark regulation is in the process of second reading, we voted against the amendment by the political group for a europe of freedom and direct democracy (efdd) which essentially called for the two reports to be rejected and for the whole process of reforming the legal framework for the registration of trade marks to be closed. as a group, we have supported the legislative process as it extends the measures to protect domestic products, safeguarding the name and specific characteristics of products against counterfeiting and their illegal sale within the community.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the main function of the regulation is essentially to register and certify products at national and community level, so that the producer or seller can protect the name and specific characteristics of his product against counterfeiting and illegal sale within the community. as a group, we have supported the legislative process as it extends the protection of domestic products, adds a number of court decisions and reduces the cost of patenting. however, we remain concerned about issues relating to the full harmonisation of national and community legislation, particularly where they affect key sectors of the economy such as trade and particularly for smaller states such as cyprus.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we are voting in favour of this report. the main amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerns the alignment of the regime control system to the fao agreement on port state responsibilities for the prevention, repression and elimination of fad. the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable benefits, both from an environmental and social point of view. taking into account that the entry into force of the amended version of the recommendation should have taken place by 1 july 2015, the rapporteur decided not to propose amendments in order to speed up the approval process as much as possible.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it aims to amend the existing eu rules for the transfer of the control and enforcement system established by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission. this amendment provides for the implementation of measures aimed at ensuring better conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the area, with lasting results, while taking account of environmental and social aspects.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing emergency trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. we took into account the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council, article 294 (2) and article 207 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in accordance with which the commission proposal was submitted to it (c8-0039/2014), and article 294 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the report concerns the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by europol of the agreement between the united arab emirates and europol on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. we therefore approve and support the council's position.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against this report on the proposed strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, as it does not deal with key issues in eu-uae relations. in fact, hypocrisy cannot go unnoticed. on the one hand, the eu is concluding cooperation agreements with the gulf countries to combat terrorism, and on the other hand, the eu is the second largest supplier of arms to the region, at a time when there is a wealth of information that these weapons are ending up in the hands of extremist fundamentalist groups. it is further noted that in 2014 the uae was the 4th largest arms buyer in the world. at the same time, and in a procedural way, the conclusion of this cooperation on the basis of the relevant council decision of 2009 ignores the fact that a new regulation on europol is currently being consulted. the new regulation is expected to significantly change the procedure for concluding such international agreements and the provisions for protecting the personal data of european citizens. the proposed agreement should therefore be concluded under the provisions of the new regulation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the strategic cooperation promoted by europol with the united arab emirates in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, but does not address key issues in eu-uae relations. unfortunately, at the same time as the eu is concluding cooperation agreements with the gulf countries to combat terrorism, it continues to be the second largest supplier of arms to the region despite a wealth of information that these weapons are ending up in the hands of extremist fundamentalist groups. also, in the procedure, the conclusion of this cooperation, on the basis of the relevant council decision of 2009, ignores the fact that a new regulation on europol is currently being consulted. the new regulation is expected to significantly change the procedure for concluding such international agreements and the provisions for the protection of the personal data of european citizens. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support and agree with the content of the report on the creation of a european energy union. we believe in the need to strengthen euro-mediterranean cooperation on gas, electricity, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and call on the commission to speed up the establishment of the euro-mediterranean gas platform. we believe that the backbone of the future energy union must be a fully functioning, interconnected internal energy market to provide secure, protected, equitably distributed, socially and environmentally responsible, efficient, competitive, affordable and sustainable energy in fully functioning, secure and resilient transmission networks. the eastern mediterranean is now a major energy potential for the eu. the discovery of gas in the region and the creation of a strong energy alliance between cyprus, israel, greece and egypt should be exploited directly by the eu. the eu faces a major challenge-prospect and an opportunity offered by the eastern mediterranean. it is up to the eu to move forward immediately with the exploitation of the eastern mediterranean because only then will europe begin to realise the vision of the european energy union and energy independence.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report includes a number of deficiencies and negative reports. references to the need to achieve a common european energy policy and to strengthen the role of the commission in transnational and trade agreements are of course aimed at promoting the interests of the eu's ruling circles and limiting the sovereignty of states inside and outside the eu, by reducing national flexibility in shaping efficient and multi-dimensional transnational energy relations. on the other hand, we have succeeded in voting for amendments which we tabled and which are of particular importance for cyprus and the interests of society and the people, amendments which express the need to turn the eastern mediterranean into a gas hub following the recent discoveries of deposits in the region. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. this requires ensuring that there is strong state control, public infrastructure and international cooperation, which will be carried out on the basis of mutual benefit, parity and solidarity and not on the basis of energy planning that serves geopolitical expediencies.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the eu's energy strategy for 2030 aims to create a true european energy union with secure energy markets and supplies, while increasing energy efficiency through the interconnection of national networks, which will gradually be homogenized, leaving behind current differentiations. the development and exploitation of the deposits of the eastern mediterranean serves the purpose of independence of sources of supply. the five aspects of this strategy are energy security, an integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and the promotion of healthy competition and research. through these objectives, the eu will be able to offer its citizens a modern energy supply system that takes account of the needs and challenges of today's society in terms of climate change and environmental degradation. the exploitation of renewable energy sources to avoid the use of coal is another welcome objective that can be achieved through the energy union. i support this resolution because achieving energy independence will promote the competitiveness of the european market with significant economic, social and political benefits for the future of the european economy and the well-being of citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report contains some very positive references, thanks to the support of the amendments tabled mainly by the gue/ngl. it stresses that energy is a public social good and calls on the eu to promote concrete measures to tackle energy poverty. it also stresses the need to ensure equal access to energy for all, to ensure affordable prices for consumers, to break the energy isolation and to promote strategic connections and energy infrastructure for the benefit of citizens. the need to exploit the significant gas reserves of the eastern mediterranean and to create a mediterranean gas hub with increased lng capacity to enhance our energy security is also of particular importance. the report also contains some negative remarks which cannot be ignored. it proposes to give the commission increased powers in the field of transnational and trade agreements to the detriment of the sovereign rights of the member states, promotes nuclear energy and proposes to include a separate chapter on energy in the ttip agreement. for these reasons we have chosen to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report rightly points out that europe's energy system has evolved since 2002, when the 10% electricity interconnection target was first set, given that renewables have been deployed across the continent. in this context, the 15% target, based on the installed capacity for 2030, should not stand alone and should be carefully and thoroughly assessed to ensure that it is fit for purpose, relevant and achievable. furthermore, it is important: (a) to implement the 'energy efficiency first' principle in national and eu policy and more demand-side measures; (b) to develop decentralised renewable energy sources and related smart grids; (c) to take national decisions on the energy mix, taking into account the eu's long-term climate and energy objectives; (d) to develop energy storage technologies, including at household and municipal level; (e) to use the best available technologies where appropriate; (f) to recognise individuals as producer-consumers in the energy system; and (g) to create clear incentives for investments in networks. we therefore support the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the part of the eu's energy objectives for the coming years includes achieving 10% electricity interconnectivity between member states, which will create an internal energy market with multiple positive economic and geopolitical implications. an internal market in electricity will help to strengthen regional cooperation by giving the eu greater autonomy and improving its geopolitical position. at the same time, a modern and well-structured network will be able to provide high-quality services while taking into account environmental protection and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the energy directive. such a system would be able to offer greater security and resilience to the various changes and interruptions in supply and also stabilised reduced prices with a direct effect of saving money for european consumers. the eu target of 10% interconnection by 2020 is important to address current problems including the low capacity of existing national infrastructures and the time-consuming permitting process (to avoid the isolation of member states, and in particular remote island states) and to achieve a single energy market as an integral part of the energy union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our constant view that the removal of the energy isolation of many eu countries and regions from the large energy networks must be one of the priorities of the union's energy policy. the report stresses the need to strengthen the missing infrastructure and promotes measures to achieve this objective, emphasising the need to support more countries such as cyprus which are still far from achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target by 2020. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and believe that the progress mechanism can generally be considered a success. if sufficient financial resources are available, even higher demand could be met. the eib granted 13 252 micro-credit loans for a total of eur 124.6 million, slightly below the target of eur 142.4 million. in addition, many, but not all, of the target groups concerned have been covered. the target of a 40:60 ratio of women to men entrepreneurs has almost been reached (37% of beneficiaries are women), although not all credit intermediaries have specific programmes for women entrepreneurs. this is significantly higher than the eu average. however, in this case a balanced quota should be sought. the sustainability of the jobs created is still difficult to assess at present, because many progress credits were granted less than a year ago. it is, however, important to ensure that the market success of micro-enterprises is monitored beyond the end of the credit period.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the zero-effect of this mechanism was made clear at least by the criticism it received during the debate on the report. however, we decided to support the mechanism because it is one of the few cases where very small businesses are given a chance to be financed, so that the economy can move again at the local level.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the zero-effect of this mechanism was made clear at least by the criticism it received during the debate on the report. however, we decided to support the mechanism because it is one of the few cases where very small businesses are given a chance to be financed, this to get the economy moving again at a local level.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 11 july 2013, article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs, we support the council's position at first reading.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report highlights some positive elements such as stakeholder participation in the definition of regional fisheries policy, improvement of fishing practices and tools, sustainable management of stocks and coordination between member states in the development of management plans and the definition of technical measures. however, we cannot ignore the enormous problems and discrimination which have been observed in the fisheries sector, especially for small-scale fishermen, by the implementation of the cap and by the increasing alignment of national policies with the community acquis, which favour the profitability and growth of large enterprises in particular. these important issues are not addressed, nor are measures to address them promoted. for these reasons we have decided to abstain.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i really want to know if all this noise is tax justice. i'm explaining. we agree to strike at tax evasion, tax avoidance, tax havens, the favourable environment created for multinational companies and corporations. but is a common tax rate for all countries tax justice? the tax rate and the conduct of tax policy are in line with the social economic policy of a free market economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vat system is not affected by the introduction of the single market.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the relations between two economic and not only superpowers, the european union and china. we believe and support a relationship of honesty and cooperation, in which one must respect the views of the other on various issues. it is important that there is a channel of dialogue and cooperation between the european union and china to address issues of global concern. the report under discussion seeks to promote the economic, political and geo-strategic interests of the european union. it recognises the importance of economic cooperation between the european union and china, but is trying to achieve this by intervening in china. the human rights that we defend above all are being used by the report to put pressure on china. this does not mean, of course, that this country should not respect human rights. the death penalty must be abolished in this country immediately and the country must reconsider its policy on a number of labour issues. the european union has a long way to go before it can make suggestions to others. the blood in afghanistan, libya and syria speaks for itself. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process.
blue-card question.– mr lamassoure, i would like to ask you a question. a few months ago, here in this parliament, we evaluated the accession of turkey. we evaluated the accession of turkey, both internally and externally, and it was disappointing for human rights, and of course for the continuing illegal occupation of cyprus. now, due to the influx of refugees, the commission wants to open up new chapters. i would like your opinion on that. is this consistent with our values and principles? is it right for the commission to do what it is about to do?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the tragedy in the mediterranean is still unresolved as we speak. last night, more lives were lost. the refugee crisis will not be met by repressive measures to detain refugees and turn europe into a fortress. the european council must focus on strengthening the rescue forces and measures to support refugees and, in particular, must establish permanent relocation mechanisms. the proposal to make frontex a joint border and coast guard body, which would operate even without the approval of the member states, would lead to a limitation of the sovereignty of the states and to a violation of the union's declared principles of solidarity and protection of refugees. the role of guardian of the european union given to turkey is equally dangerous, at a time when human rights violations, the killing of protesters and the arbitrary arrests of journalists continue in the country. the only solution is to support the states, particularly those in the mediterranean, which are facing serious refugee flows, and to strengthen them so that they can respond to the refugee crisis with a humanitarian approach.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european banking authority (eba) of 8 september 2015 to extend the mandate of the chair of esma for a further five years (c8-0313/2015), and to article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european banking authority), we agree to extend the mandate of the chair of the eba.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ since we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas), we will not support the (re) appointment of the chairpersons either.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas) because we disagree with the way they operate. we have therefore not supported the reappointment of the chairmen.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ whereas the first chair of the eiopa was appointed by the board of supervisors of the eiopa in 2011, following an open selection procedure, for a period of five years, in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010, whereas article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of the eiopa, after taking into account the assessment referred to in that provision, may extend the term of office of the chair of the eiopa once, subject to ratification by the european parliament, and, finally, whereas on 30 september 2015 the board of supervisors of the eiopa proposed to extend the term of office of mr gabriel bernardino, chair of the eiopa, by a further five years, we inform the european parliament of the decision to extend the term of office.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ since we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas), we will not support the reappointment of the chairpersons either.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas) because we disagree with the way they operate. we are not in favour of the reappointment of presidents either.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the extension of the term of office of the chairman of esma, taking into account the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the fact that the first chairman of esma was appointed by the board of supervisors of esma in 2011, following an open selection procedure, for a period of five years, in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. we also took note that on 24 september 2015 the board of supervisors of esma proposed to extend the mandate of mr steven maijoor, chairman of esma, for a further five years.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ since we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas), we do not intend to support the reappointment of the chairpersons either.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we did not support the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas) because we disagree with the way they operate and for the same reason we will not support the reappointment of their chairmen.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, having regard to the council draft (10509/2015), having regard to article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, having regard to article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, on which the council was consulted (c8-0276/2015), and, finally, having regard to council decision 2009/371/jha of 6 april 2009 on the establishment of a european police office (europol), and in particular article 23 (2) thereof. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and the purpose it serves. we agree that the pre-existing adverse situation in the region, combined with the cumulative effect of the closure of three major firms in this sector in a short period of time, and the fact that there are no longer any employers in the mro sector in ireland, may justify a derogation from the 500 redundancies threshold set out in article 4 (1) of the egf regulation. we reiterate our recommendation to the commission that it either clarify the criteria for derogation under article 4 (1) of the erc regulation or lower the limit of 500 redundancies. finally, we welcome the fact that, in order to provide workers with the fastest possible assistance, the irish authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 22 may 2015, well before the decision on granting egf support for the proposed coordinated package.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our constant practice to vote in favour of the amounts released from the globalisation adjustment fund because they are in any case a kind of support for the workers made redundant. however, we have always made it clear that in our view these are not viable measures to protect workers. we believe that industrial policy must be long-term, state-supported and ensure that workers' support is not fragmented, as is the case here. the state's strategy must be based on long-term plans for continuing training and retraining of employees in various key areas of state investment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our constant practice to vote in favour of the amounts released from the globalisation adjustment fund because they are undoubtedly a form of support for the workers made redundant. however, we have always made it clear that we do not consider them to be viable measures to protect workers. we believe that industrial policy must be long-term, supported by the state and ensuring that workers' support is not fragmented, as is the case here. the state's strategy must be based on long-term plans for continuing training and retraining of employees in various key areas of state investment.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as invasive species are a serious and rapidly worsening threat to natural biodiversity in europe. plants and animals entering new, foreign habitats can overwhelm natural flora or fauna and damage the environment. they also have social and economic implications, for example on human health, fisheries, agriculture and food production.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we disagree and oppose the report that any implementing decision to authorise the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 in its current non-functional form should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i wish to vote in favour of the resolution concerning the suspension and repeal of commission implementing decision 2015/2279 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 (mon-øø6ø3-6 × acs-zmøø3-2), as i consider that this decision is contrary to the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. these products contain substances (cp 4 epsps protein and pat protein) which are considered by specialised cancer research centres as possibly carcinogenic to humans, with the result that their authorisation for placing on the market is contrary to community law and to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 itself, which states that, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002, the objective of the authorisation system for genetically modified food and feed is to 'ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers'.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we oppose this report because it wrongly aims at a common single corporate tax for all eu member states. we agree with the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, but this has nothing to do with the ability of countries to determine their tax policies freely. in the name of the so-called fight against tax havens, you are wrongly trying to undermine business and the freedom of taxation in each country by undermining the tax systems of the member states. the only thing you are doing is serving tax havens and directing foreign companies outside the eu to these tax havens. it is unthinkable to ask for a mandatory common corporate taxation regime to be imposed on the free economies of the eu when the eu has different tax and vat rates and when the eu is against the centralised economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is based on the principle of the taxation of savings income in the member states. you cannot and should not impose a common corporate tax on member countries because that is contrary to the very principles of the open economy and the eu.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report does not propose anything specific on the common corporate tax, nor anything new, but focuses mainly on the further exchange of tax information between member states, which will be coordinated from brussels. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits, and the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits. that is why we voted against the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the there are positive elements in the report, such as those on greater transparency and others, but they are not, in my view, sufficient to vote in favour of the report. my objection is mainly that the report contains terms and descriptive references which may be politically acceptable but are of dubious legal content, such as those concerning an aggressive tax rate. the report draws a correlation between legal low tax systems, described as aggressive tax planning systems, which 'often lead to the use of a combination of international tax mismatches, highly favourable specific national tax rules and tax havens'. however, such a correlation without setting parameters is a generalized approach. the report also calls on the european commission to submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal to establish a common consolidated corporate tax base, which inevitably aims at converging the corporate tax rate of the member states. however, this works against the ability of member states to set their own taxation in the context of free competition and also undermines the competitive advantage enjoyed by, in particular, small island and remote member states, which have built up a balanced system over decades by using their available resources with a focus on their human capital.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report does not propose anything specific on the common corporate tax, nor anything new, but it focuses mainly on the proposal for further exchange of tax information between member states, which will be coordinated from brussels. we are firmly opposed to a common corporate tax because we believe that each member state must retain its sovereign right to design and implement its own tax policies. that is why we voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support this report and note the priority given by president xi's presidency to the relationship with the us, given his proposal for a 'new type of relationship' between china, the us and other regional powers. however, we believe that a more constructive approach is needed for a new world order to which china should contribute and be part of, an order founded on the universal values of human rights, democracy and human security. we also call on the eu to become more active in asia and to work with china, the us and other regional powers to increase stability in the region. we note that the recent white paper on china's military strategy reveals beijing's intentions to further strengthen the chinese navy, as well as expand the scope of its operations, moving from a coastal defence approach to an open-sea defence approach.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is unfortunately not balanced. it is blaming china and taking a clear stand in favour of other countries in the region with which the eu has closer and better relations. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. china certainly has a way to go on a number of human rights issues. the report has no legal force and does not take a position on whether or not we support eu-china relations, but it describes the relations and the aspirations. we are in favour of a close relationship between the eu and china based on mutual understanding and cooperation, but we believe that the report is trying to serve other interests.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on eu-china relations because it neither puts the development of eu-china relations on the right footing nor exercises constructive criticism. the report is, on the contrary, hypocritical and fully aligns itself with the foreign policy and interests of the eu's ruling circles. for example, while accusing and condemning china on a range of issues, such as the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it also stresses the need to expand trade agreements and economic ties between the eu and china. that is why we have decided to vote against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and agree that the unprecedentedly high needs and limited resources are testing the limits of the global humanitarian response system. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the eu can and should take a leading role in the whs process towards a strong outcome that is guided by humanitarian principles and responsive to the needs of beneficiaries. to successfully influence the negotiations on the final text and the follow-up to the summit, the eu will need to express focused common positions in istanbul and demonstrate unity. it must use the common european concept of humanitarian aid to guide its contribution and promote it as a model for a global concept. the eu must also continue to emphasise the essential role of ngos in humanitarian action and ensure that their views are taken into account in the processes and outcome.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ humanitarian aid is an important pillar of a policy promoting development in developing countries. the report proposes a number of measures which we are satisfied with. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of drugs and drug addiction is a good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the today's globalised society faces humanitarian crises of various sizes culminating in a vast and endless humanitarian crisis with many different aspects and impacts, such as population displacement and unprecedented refugee flows. the causes of this crisis are warfare and natural disasters due to climate change - all products of human intolerance and greed. in witnessing this dramatic increase in the number of people in immediate need of help, we cannot turn a blind eye to the reality. the urgency of the problem and the inefficiency of the current response are demonstrated by the convening of the first world summit in istanbul this coming may. the emergency aid measures taken to date have proved inadequate to deal with and limit the scale and complexity of the problem and have failed to provide real protection for our fellow men. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the eu, as a humanitarian pioneer, must continue to play a key role in this effort, with the ultimate aim of creating a 'global common understanding of humanitarian aid'.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the humanitarian aid is a key part of our ideological and political stance against the exploitation of societies in developing countries by capitalist interests. however, in this report there are references to support for private organizations providing humanitarian aid services, which is particularly worrying to us as the main objective of these organizations is to maintain their profitability. these organisations base their profitability on maintaining the status quo and that is why incidents and evidence of involvement of these organisations in the processes of civil conflict and warfare so often come to the surface. we have abstained, because the negative references and the shortcomings in our text are of particular concern.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we voted against the report because we believe that in an industrialized and resource-efficient economy it is imperative to upgrade the secondary metals (which are produced by a recovery and recycling process) which must be developed in the context of a competitive and sustainable circular economy, although we know that it cannot in any case fully meet the needs of european economies in terms of essential metals, either in quality or in quantity. · we also know that the eu trade balance for scrap is positive and that more efforts should be made to provide incentives for the recycling of scrap in europe. · finally, we would point out that the base metal industry and the suppliers of raw and auxiliary materials should be treated in an integrated and uniform manner.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report tackles the serious problems facing the european base metal industries due to reduced demand and the strong competition that exists due to the relocation of production by large multinational companies to third countries so that they do not have to comply with eu environmental rules or collective agreements. we voted against this report because it contains a number of positive points, such as the need to support the european metal industry, particularly in relation to workers' rights, the need to create new quality jobs, the need to protect human health and the environment, and the need to put obstacles in the way of the activities and profitability of the large multinational companies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report addresses the serious problems facing the european base metal industries due to reduced demand and the strong competition that exists due to the relocation of production by large multinational companies to third countries to comply neither with eu environmental rules nor with collective agreements. we voted against this report because it contains a number of positive points, such as the need to support the european metal industry particularly in relation to workers' rights, the need to create new quality jobs combined with the need to protect human health and the environment, and the need to put a stop to the activities and profitability of large multinational companies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we cannot agree with the content of this report and therefore we are voting against it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the new resolution which we as a group have supported seeks to describe and condemn the recent developments in hungary in the fields of political asylum and the protection of the country's borders. it also describes the significant and systematic deterioration of the rule of law and fundamental rights. the resolution reiterates that the commission must put into effect the first stage of the eu rule of law framework, which we called for in june, without the commission and the council doing so. the resolution also calls on the libe committee to prepare a special report on hungary with a view to activating article 7 (1) of the treaty.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in the midst of the serious humanitarian crisis affecting the whole of europe and witnessing the tragic events unfolding on the borders of many member states, the eu must safeguard its principles and values because they are part of our interests. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the cornerstones of the eu's founding treaties. however, contrary to the european acquis, the hungarian government, in order to control the flow of refugees at its borders, declared a state of emergency and adopted strict deterrent measures to reduce the number of refugees seeking asylum on its territory. this policy includes, among others, amendments to criminal legislation and procedure, mobilization of the army and arrests of refugees at the border, acts which are in clear violation of the eu fundamental principles under article 2 teu. i therefore support this resolution which promises to deal immediately with the present worrying situation in hungary through systematic monitoring and intensive monitoring by the commission and leaving open the possibility of applying article 7 of the teu, which allows the council to make recommendations to a member state which is in danger of seriously infringing the rules of primary european law.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the hungary has indeed violated the copenhagen criteria on the basis of which it joined the eu and has indeed violated both european law and international treaties by a treatment of refugees, migrants and asylum seekers that is a continuation of the undemocratic actions of the present hungarian government. but the political guidelines on the use of european funds to deal with refugee flows remain controversial, when the eu itself refuses to address the real causes of the refugee crisis. it is true that article 7 creates a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the obligations of the member states as they result from article 2 of the eu treaty, but the generalisation of the wording leaves room for different treatment by the member states. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. for these reasons we have decided to abstain.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the defence of the oppressed must be an objective of our lives, especially as representatives of the peoples of europe. today we honoured raif badawi but at the same time we are maintaining our economic relations with the existing caliphate of saudi arabia. isn't that hypocrisy? mrs mogherini went to iran, said a few things about oil, but didn't say a word about the fact that they hang dissidents publicly from cranes and lampposts. at the moment, part of southeastern turkey is occupied by the government of the country itself. barricades, house arrest, hand to hand combat. i call on every member of this parliament to raise the bar of dignity, defending, regardless of any other data, every human right in every corner of the planet, a planet that is watching us because we once gave the message that we are different, while we ultimately share some responsibility for babies drowning with their mothers at sea. i am personally ashamed and sorry, but as i am also part of this scene, i look forward with great interest to mr stylianides' reply.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we have from the outset expressed our reservations about the political motives behind this initiative. we are always in favour of checks on substance but against checks on expediency. that's why we're pitted against each other.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the recent scandal involving the volkswagen car company has raised concerns about the influence of the big car companies on the commission. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ our position on cooperation agreements remains firm: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agreement is not a mere 'contract' between the eu and the state with which it is concluded. we reserve the right to criticise the content if this is an attempt to impose eu policy on any country. in the specific case of the eu-vietnam agreement, as regards the inclusion of croatia in that agreement, and in the light of our positions, we consider that the most appropriate position is that of abstention.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we abstained on the three reports on the framework agreement on cooperation between the eu and vietnam, on the one hand showing respect for the will of the state to conclude such agreements and on the other hand maintaining our critical attitude towards the eu's foreign policy, especially as regards the content and objectives of such agreements. the eu's hypocritical attitude of applying its principles and values to the best of its ability, and the promotion of neoliberal policies in third countries through trade agreements that create relations of dependence and operate against the interests of the peoples, are completely opposite to us.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we reject the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ our position on cooperation agreements remains firm: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we reserve the right to criticise the content if it is intended to impose eu policy on any country. in the case of the eu-vietnam agreement, and in the light of our positions, we believe that the most appropriate attitude is to abstain from any action which might be considered to be a violation of the rights of the individual.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we abstained on the three reports on the framework agreement on cooperation between the eu and vietnam, on the one hand showing respect for the will of the state to conclude such agreements and on the other hand maintaining our critical attitude towards the eu's foreign policy, especially as regards the content and objectives of such agreements. the eu's hypocritical attitude of applying its principles and values to the best of its ability, and the promotion of neoliberal policies in third countries through trade agreements that create relations of dependence and operate against the interests of the peoples, are completely opposite to us.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support this resolution and at the same time share the vietnamese government's concerns about the increase in corruption, which is one of the country's most basic problems. the resolution calls for a closer examination of cases in which citizens who report corruption are targeted by the authorities and calls on the vietnamese authorities to thoroughly investigate the arbitrary prosecutions of journalists, bloggers and whistleblowers. it also condemned the misuse by the vietnamese government of article 258 of the penal code on 'abuse of democratic freedoms' which carries a prison sentence of up to seven years. it notes that only a few cases have been successfully brought to justice despite the anti-corruption law and calls on the government to improve its implementation. the resolution rightly calls on the vietnamese authorities to make greater efforts against corruption in order to send a positive message to foreign investors and rightly also points out that the inadequate legal infrastructure and the system of corruption lead to financial uncertainty and pose a serious obstacle to investment and business activities.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the eu-vietnam cooperation agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i reserve the right to criticise the content, however, if this is an attempt to impose eu policy on any state with which it concludes such agreements. in this particular case, i regret to say that i do not think that the report is balanced, and that is why i prefer the abstention.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have chosen to abstain on the three reports concerning the framework agreement on cooperation between the eu and vietnam, showing respect for the will of the state to attach such agreements but at the same time maintaining a critical attitude towards the eu's foreign policy, particularly as regards the content and objectives of such agreements. the eu's hypocritical attitude of applying its principles and values to the best of its ability, and the promotion of neoliberal policies in third countries through trade agreements that create relations of dependence and operate against the interests of the peoples, are completely opposite to us.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the motion for a resolution and agree, in connection with the commission's proposals to strengthen emu, that, despite the steps taken in the right direction, further efforts will be required to address the current weaknesses of the euro area institutional framework. we also regret that the package published by the commission does not leave enough room for parliamentary oversight and the development of dialogue at european level, which is essential to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken in the context of emu and thus a sense of 'familiarity' among citizens with the governance of the euro area. finally, we ask the commission, as the report by the five presidents also provides, to consult parliament in good time in the context of the preparation of the white paper on the transitional period between phase 1 and phase 2 of the emu reforms.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and underline the eu's efforts to uphold and promote respect for human rights and democratic values in its relations with the rest of the world. the report rightly reminds us that democratic regimes are not only characterised by free and fair electoral procedures but also guarantee freedom of speech, of the press and of association, the rule of law and accountability, the independence of the judiciary and impartial administration, amongst others. it also stresses that democracy and human rights are inextricably linked and mutually reinforcing, as recalled in the council conclusions of 18 november 2009 on support for democracy in the context of the eu's external relations. finally, we welcome the fact that the new action plan on human rights and democracy pays particular attention to democracy support activities.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the question of human rights and democracy is extremely sensitive. unfortunately, in the eu, as this report and other analyses show, declarations cannot be left out of the geopolitical game and above economic interests. the report attempts to target exclusively certain countries with which the west has conflicts. there is no mention of violations within the union itself or in countries with which the union has close economic and other relations. it is not possible to vote on the report with such glaring deficiencies. it is not possible to avoid criticism of the fact that officials visit various countries and do not raise human rights issues. we want a europe which is different from the other powers and not a europe which is subordinated to economic and geostrategic interests.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we are not opposed to policies that promote the further consolidation of human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report makes reference to human rights violations by countries such as russia and china but there is no reference to human rights violations in the us or even within the eu itself. there is also no mention of the neoliberal policies of harsh austerity promoted by the eu's ruling circles, restricting and trampling on basic citizens' rights. nor is there any mention of the continuation of trade agreements with countries which are committing gross human rights violations, nor is there any mention of the fact that the eu continues to supply military equipment to countries which cooperate with terrorist organisations at the very same time that its member states are carrying out 'humanitarian interventions' which contribute to the bloodletting of peoples, the creation of waves of refugees and the intensification of the refugee crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the resolution reminds local political leaders that reforms are needed that focus on ineffective, inefficient or backward laws and institutions. it also stressed the need for measures to protect political, individual and human rights, called for the restoration of the rule of law and encouraged the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to make significant efforts to implement the political system outlined in the dayton constitution. it is further emphasised that the ohr, as an unelected political authority, will no longer be able to enforce laws without any possibility of appeal or without the input of an independent body. the european union is also calling for the reaffirmation of annex x to the dayton peace agreement. finally, it calls for the necessary measures to be implemented to ensure the preservation of the dayton peace agreement and to put an end to any attempts to change or degrade the dayton international peace agreement, including attempts to enforce laws related to the judiciary and the prosecution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ our position has always been in favour of giving the people of bosnia and herzegovina the right to decide for themselves their political future. it is time to end the international military presence in bosnia-herzegovina and to stop it being an international protectorate.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report calls on member states to allocate sufficient resources to effectively implement and enforce controls on the export, brokering and transit of dual-use items. the report welcomes the ongoing eu-funded capacity building programmes supporting the export control systems of dual-use items in third countries and calls on member states to mobilise training capacities within the eu as well. it also notes that the commission must be able to provide companies in doubt as to whether to apply for an export licence with correct and up-to-date information on the legality or the potentially adverse effects of possible transactions in a timely manner. however, there are important shortcomings in the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we chose abstinence. the problem with the report is that while it agrees that there are huge exports of military equipment to third countries (worth €26.7 billion) and that these exports are linked to the escalation of conflicts - as much of the equipment ends up in the hands of terrorists and oppressive regimes - it contains very negative references from which one can conclude that the sale of weapons to areas such as ukraine and iraq does not create any problems. the report also fails to propose effective measures to combat the illegal arms trade and to combat corruption. the eu's ruling circles do not want to be blamed for the war in ukraine or the middle east, but at the same time they are unfortunately protecting the interests of the war industries in every way and adding reports that they expect the production and sale of war equipment to continue unhindered where there is a demand.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the resolution because it is moving in a positive direction. we consider that the fundamental principle of the international system of plant variety rights based on the upov convention and the eu system based on council regulation (ec) no 2100/94 is that the holder of a plant variety right cannot deprive third parties of the possibility to use the protected variety for further breeding activities. it is rightly concerned that the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli) may lead to an increase in the number of patents granted by the epo in respect of physical characteristics introduced into new varieties by mainly biological methods such as crossing and selection.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although i agree with the substance of this resolution, i do not consider it necessary for two reasons: the commission's oral question is already clear and, secondly, there is already a resolution from 2012 that fully satisfies us. i am afraid that a new resolution may overturn the positive points that we believe the 2012 resolution ensures.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution concerns the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office opening the legal way for patenting organic plant varieties. it's basically a company buying copyright. in this way, the company in question can ask for money in return for allowing the commercial exploitation of the patented plant variety (e.g. seeds of a particular variety of wheat) by third companies, whereas in the past these varieties were free to be exploited by each company and each farmer. an oral question was recently tabled in which the european parliament asks the commission to propose legislation (through revision of directive 98/44/ec) to prohibit the patenting of organic plant varieties. this was followed by the resolution on which we abstained, although we agree on the substance, because we consider that the recent oral question and the 2012 resolution fully cover the positions of our group, unlike the resolution which has significant shortcomings.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the resolution because it approves the targeted sanctions adopted by the eu in accordance with the au decision. these sanctions include travel bans and asset freezes on burundian citizens whose actions and statements contribute to the continuation of violence and the obstruction of efforts to find a political solution to the crisis. the eu is also called upon to extend similar sanctions to all those who act in a way that threatens peace and stability in the region by inciting hatred and violating the arusha agreement. the resolution urges the eu and its member states, taking into account the progress of the public consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, to consider freezing all non-humanitarian aid to the burundian government until the excessive use of force and human rights violations by government forces, as denounced by the ohchr, cease and a political solution resulting from a genuine national dialogue in the country is found.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the resolution because it stresses, among other things, that eu member states have a duty under international and european human rights law to ensure that companies operating within their jurisdiction do not cause or contribute to human rights violations, directly or indirectly, through their business activities. companies themselves are also required to act in accordance with approved codes of conduct and the social and environmental performance standards they set, as well as in accordance with instruments such as the ilo convention 169, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and the un guidelines on business and human rights. · we also agree with the resolution because it calls on the commission and the member states to take legally binding measures to effectively hold to account companies found to have circumvented national legislation and international treaties. another positive element of the resolution is the call it contains to the commission, the member states, the democratic republic of congo and oil companies interested in oil drilling on the need to protect the current boundaries and the surrounding areas of the virunga park from exploitation of fossil fuels.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site and also the park with the highest biodiversity in africa. exploration and exploitation for oil and other illegal activities can cause irreversible damage to the park. the eu is able to organise a diplomatic response from member states and help the drc to limit armed conflict in the park. the commission should establish a mechanism to ensure that the oecd recommendations on multinational corporations are implemented and that foreign investors comply with the un principles on human and corporate rights.
