mr president, italy has taken over the presidency at a time of change in the european institutions. in the last six months, a new parliament has been established, a new commission elected, and the european union's leaders have taken office. the presidency has dealt with the difficult transition between two legislative cycles with dignity, both in working on its own priorities and in continuing the work that was left unfinished. as rapporteur for the legislative proposal to introduce the public ecall system, i had the opportunity to work personally with the italian presidency representatives. it was a constructive collaboration. thanks to the intensive efforts of the italian colleagues, agreement was reached between the member states and parliament. the result is a proposal that has a positive impact on citizens' daily lives and will contribute to enhancing safety on european roads. so i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, prime minister, and your colleagues for your work.
madam president, the question of the cultivation of gmos and their possible prohibition in the individual member states has long been a subject of passionate debate in this field. certainly, the numerous profit-making lobby groups have a share of the blame. and profit is what's at stake here, in my opinion, first and foremost. the last time this was shown was at the end of last year, when the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted on the committee's recommendations for the second reading. many controversial amendments passed by only one vote. gmos are a danger both to the environment itself, to the genetic pool and to species diversity, and above all to human and animal health. i would point out that most of the impact studies on gmos have always been funded primarily by multinational corporations, led by their lobbyists. the harm of gmos to human health is not even mentioned in public discourse, yet we already know about them from independent studies. i must say that i am very disappointed with the current state of the text presented. the european parliament went into the negotiations with a very good text which we could and should have defended, but we failed to do so. therefore, i personally refuse to support the current version of the proposal in any way. we have to stop gmos in the european union.
in writing. the member states of the european union have long called for the adaptation of existing legislation to allow them greater freedom and flexibility in restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. however, negotiations were blocked by the member states themselves for four years, and the resulting compromise proposal of the council, adopted by 28 environment ministers in july 2014, was far from perfect. however, during the debate in the european parliament, the text was significantly improved, particularly in terms of weakening the powers of companies seeking to market gmos in the eu, in favour of member state governments. it was also essential to strengthen the measures required by member states to ensure the coexistence of the crops grown and, in particular, to prevent cross-border contamination. overall, this is a good compromise that helps to protect europe's biodiversity and preserve natural habitats and ecosystems, among other things. however, as vice-president of the envi committee, i would like to see a text that reflects even more the public opinion in europe, which is increasingly turning against gmos, and in particular their presence in food. the debate between pro- and anti-gmo groups is not over, and we look forward to the steps taken by commission president jean-claude juncker, who has committed to strengthening the democratic process on gmo authorisation in europe and ensuring that research on gmos is truly independent.
in writing. the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement concluded by the european commission and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe in may 2014 builds upon the previous protocol which expired in 2014. the new proposal was signed to achieve two main objectives: on the one hand, to allow eu vessels to fish within the limits of available surplus in são toméan waters, but at the same time to allow the eu to promote and monitor the effective implementation of a more responsible tuna fisheries policy, as defined by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. i fully support the deepening of cooperation between the eu and this former portuguese colony, which is an important partner for the eu, not least from a geopolitical point of view. the inhumane way tuna is caught is a major global problem and the european union should do its utmost to ensure that the funds it spends on its fisheries policy are always allocated to sustainable fishing. this should also apply to the case of this protocol, which should ensure more targeted financial interventions, in particular towards strengthening control mechanisms in the fight against illegal fishing.
madam president, i welcome this decision, i supported it. i supported it for two reasons, firstly because it is always good to give the national states the possibility of regulating a matter by their own legislation where european regulation is not necessarily necessary. and this is precisely the case where european adjustment is not necessarily necessary. secondly, in the european union, there is in some countries, in my view, an unjustified and, in some cases, even anti-scientific hysteria against genetically modified crops. i do not take his views from anyone, if ever a country wants to ban the cultivation of genetically modified crops, please do so, but do not force other countries to follow suit. i am glad that this decision, i hope, will unblock the possibility of such a veto at the level of the european union.
i have supported this proposal, madam president, because i believe that it will soon give the member states of the european union the instrument, in the form of a new directive, to enable them to regulate the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory effectively. states will now be free to restrict, restrict or even ban authorised gmos. this changes the existing situation, which was governed by the 2001 directive, under which gmos were in principle authorised centrally for the whole of the european union and only a reporting obligation existed for the national authorities. the european food safety authority will continue to assess only the risks of gmo cultivation. i therefore regard today's decision as the fulfilment of the principle of subsidiarity, which is often spoken of but not always respected at european level.
in writing. i am not afraid of genetically modified maize, but i believe that member states should have the right to allow or not to allow the cultivation of gmos on their territory. i am voting for this amendment so that there is no blocking of authorizations at eu level if there are member states which do not want genetically modified crops on their territory.
in writing. the proposal to allow member states to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory is a compromise that could correct the current ambiguity in this area. it is also positive that the way in which decisions are made in europe about the safety and use of gmos in our agriculture is not called into question and that the position of efsa is not weakened. unfortunately, i think that such a broad and easy option for countries to ban the use of gmos on the basis not of scientific but of political reasons is wrong. it constitutes a certain weakening of the principle of the single market and may serve as a precedent for other similar decisions. moreover, given the benefits of using gmo techniques in a number of areas, i consider it to be not very functional and potentially leading to further problematic decisions. these negatives to me outweighed the benefits of the proposal, and that's why i didn't support it.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament adopted the rapporteur's proposal at second reading, as it has fully demonstrated its role as the defender of the interests of the citizens of the eu member states in a situation where the current european legislation has left the member states in a deadlock. the european parliament already indicated in 2011 that it takes citizens' concerns very seriously and that it supports member states in their competence to decide on the use of gmos on their territory. i believe that it is right to leave the responsibility to the member states, since the real impact of gmos on entire ecosystems has not yet been reliably demonstrated, let alone disproved. at the same time, i oppose the council's obligation to introduce a so-called phase 1, whereby a member state is obliged to explicitly ask an undertaking seeking to place a gmo on the eu market not to apply such a request to its national territory. i also supported the rapporteur's proposal in this respect. lastly, it should be stressed that the legal basis for the new legislation should be the environment, as already expressed by the european parliament in its decision at first reading.
in writing. i have decided to support this compromise because it has been achieved five years after the legislative process began. i supported this text in line with the opinion of the group of the european people's party and also in line with the opinion of the experts, the ministry of the environment and the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic. the compromise reached will make it possible to clarify the regulation at european level, while giving individual member states a greater say in the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. i am convinced that a balanced compromise has been found between the commission, council and european parliament's proposal in this sensitive area, which is why i did not vote for the further amendments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposed compromise today because i believe it offers an effective solution to the problem. each member state will be able to regulate the cultivation of genetically modified food itself, which is certainly a sensible solution to this sensitive problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of allowing member states to decide for themselves whether they want to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified agricultural products. each country has a different approach and different natural conditions. i am strongly in favour of the sensible and controlled use of gm products in the european union.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a directive because i consider it to be a very good and balanced compromise which, in my view, gives the member states, the european regions, businesses and, above all, farmers the appropriate legal framework within which they can move. i am personally pleased that the member states have been given some leeway to decide on prohibitions and restrictions on cultivation. genetically modified organisms offer new opportunities for europe, but they must not cause concern for european citizens.
mr president, i would like to congratulate president tusk. we czechs and poles understand each other, so i can say ‘hodně štěstí’ (‘best of luck’). i would like to make a few references on the european council conclusions. for once, i am happy that the european council has identified the right issues and has come forward with timely conclusions. i also appreciate the fact that we do not see council conclusions in terms of a shopping list or a christmas tree which is supposed to make everyone happy, but rather as something which shows what the top priorities for the upcoming period are. i also appreciate that a decision has been taken on the fund. on the other hand, there is one thing that i really miss. we did have an economic conference in the alde group to which vice-president katainen came. he said that a significant linkage with structural reform would complicate the whole set-up. i do not agree: we need that link, otherwise we will be wasting money. the third remark is on one of the conclusions on better regulation. i must say that it is the council, and therefore the council structures, including the european council, that have the worst record on better regulation. the absolute minimum is impact assessment. there is no single effort in the council to deal with it, and i think that this is something i would like to bring to your attention. i hope that something will happen at least to match the commission and the european parliament on that. my last remark is on russia. if i may quote you, ‘we need an adequate, consistent and united strategy on russia’. i very much agree. i would only add that we need to make sure that we will implement it in a united way, that we will have a common policy. i have every confidence that you will ensure that the european council and the heads of government speak with one voice. i am also critical here of some czech politicians in this respect.
mr president, i would like to comment on only one issue discussed at the european council, namely the eur 315 billion european fund for strategic investments. i am sure we can all agree on the importance of accelerating strategic investment in europe, which should help to accelerate economic growth and should also help to increase competitiveness. the allocation of these funds to specific projects will certainly be the subject of a very complex debate, not only in parliament but also at council and commission level. what remains a bit of a mystery, however, is the completion of this massive investment package. the debate on the allocation of horizon 2020 and cef on the floor of the european parliament will not be easy. today, the replenishment of funds from member states and the private sector is also unclear. the big question for me is the speed of the debate in the european parliament, where the trilogues are planned for may. it's too much uncertainty for me in such an important matter.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to contribute to this debate in a constructive way. instead of criticizing what happened, we should ask ourselves, what can we as europeans do for libya? first of all, we should demand a ceasefire and the restoration of order and security and lead the parties to the conflict to do so. secondly, libya as a state must remain intact, and thirdly, the european union should prevent arms deliveries to libya and escalation of the entire conflict. commissioner, i believe that the stability of libya means the stability of italy and the stability of the european union as a whole.
madam president, allow me to make a technical remark. i think when someone raises their hand to make a technical comment, i've read the rules and i'm supposed to take precedence, that's the first thing. and the second thing is, madam chair, i'm in the ninth meeting you've run, and maybe if you'd finished the speakers on time, there wouldn't be any debate about who's speaking and how long. thank you very much, and i sincerely hope that we can work together better in the future.
in writing. viktor emil frankl, the famous austrian psychiatrist, once came up with the idea that alongside the statue of liberty on the east coast, there should also be a statue of responsibility on the west coast. in my opinion, that idea is more valid today than ever. the events of the last few months, and especially the recent ones, have shown us that the smuggling of people from unstable areas is becoming a thriving business. the groups that organize this smuggling are not interested in getting people safely out of conflict zones into the eu, but in making a lot of money off their suffering. it is crucial for me that the eu takes responsibility here, finds these organized groups and punishes them properly. but eu responsibility must also be part of its internal policy. if europe is taking in migrants from troubled areas, it must also take responsibility for them. these people are mostly - if at all - in unskilled jobs, and let's be honest, the eu needs these workers to some extent. so it should be our duty to act responsibly towards these immigrants, just as they must act responsibly towards their integration into europe.
in writing. the eu proposal for a 40% representation of women on supervisory and management boards of companies argues that only 15% of women are on these boards and the resulting inequalities. what, then, should we say to the situation that women are not represented at all in some political bodies and functions? those who appoint and elect management bodies should be concerned about the use of women's potential. i have long supported the representation of women in political and public office, and i have supported their professional and academic careers. surprisingly, no women have asked me to introduce quotas, but women have repeatedly asked me to improve the conditions for reconciling their parental role and their job. it would make more sense to consider gender-balanced quotas in public administration bodies, possibly in the management bodies of state-owned companies or public entities, and also in electoral laws. the aim should be to ensure a balanced representation of women wherever they are the subject of decision-making. it's in the women's interest to be there and have a strong voice. but the representation of women on the boards of large companies is more in the interest of the companies themselves. some people get it and they get it right, and some people don't, and it's their business. for private companies, the european commission should come up with positive incentives rather than regulations.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to the circumstances which, in my view, are very important. of course, the prevention of crime, a safer environment in europe, transparency as a way to fight corruption, but also the above-mentioned number of 3 600 estimated criminal gangs all testify to this proposal or to a greater degree of fighting corruption. however, as a lawyer, i would also like to draw attention to the misuse of operational search tools by the state authorities. and i would urge the commission to consider the privacy of citizens, the protection of their rights and to seek a meaningful balance when looking for measures to fight corruption. i would be very grateful to her.
madam president, i am a little sorry that i have not had the opportunity to speak on the subject of women's quotas, because of the commissioner, but at least in this area i would like to comment on the subject under discussion. the commissioner cited articles of the charter which clearly show that european law regulates this issue, but apparently not sufficiently in the sense that the responsibility for security policy and the implementation of these principles lies primarily with the member states, and not with the institutions of the european union. what if it is proved that member states are violating this rule? who and how can, from the point of view of european law, ensure that this breach is remedied and that the charter is enforced? i think these are fundamental questions that we should be thinking about in this debate. the trust between client and attorney is truly sacred. then one might ask, where does this abuse end? is it going to be in confessional, where people confess to their confessor?
mr president, i wish the prime minister the very best and offer her my congratulations on latviaʼs programme. i still remember the event at the baltic prime ministers’ meeting more than a year ago to which i was invited, and i felt some freshness in that room there with the three baltic states. i must say that it is quite a success story for all three baltic states, and i very much hope, prime minister, that you will bring some of that freshness into the european union too. you have said that european citizens want concrete results; you have also spoken of the fact that we need further digitalisation of europe. while yes, citizens want concrete results and your programme will be credible, what you have said today will be credible if we see the situation on roaming and net neutrality unblocked in the council. this, i think, is an early message that you need to send in the very near future. we have also spoken about better regulation, and that is the second and final point i would like to raise, and on both i would appreciate a comment. better regulation: the commission has made progress in the last couple of years, and we feel that vice-president timmermans has a certain ambition. parliament has made progress, but there is one institution in the european union which has a zero record – and that is the council. the council is amending legislation and negotiating, and none of that is assessed. there is no impact assessment. i mean that if we are to have better regulation, there is no impact assessment in the council; and if we are to have better regulation, the council has to match the commission and parliament, otherwise it will not be better regulation, it will be no good regulation at all.
dear prime minister, you mentioned that latvia broke away from the soviet system 25 years ago, and in one breath you say that you will support the new european investment fund. don't you see the paradox in that? do you really think that if politicians and bureaucrats decide or co-decide on investments, our economy will improve? doesn't this feel a little like going back to the old system? in your speech you said that your aim was to increase competitiveness, that you wanted to push for digitisation and better regulation. does that remind you of the old soviet phrase about improving systems? aren't they just empty phrases? you say you want to advocate a revision of the europe 2020 plan, does that not remind you of the old soviet five-year plans? the european union set out a plan in 2000 which it called the lisbon strategy. who remembers that? by 2010, to become the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. and in 2010, the european union became the world's slowest-growing economy. so let's be careful not to go back to those soviet days that didn't work.
in writing. – mr president, first of all congratulations to latvia, one of the smallest eu member states, which has been entrusted – for the first time – with the great honour and responsibility to lead the union for the next six months. i am pleased to see that the presidency is pursuing a significant agenda in the field of employment and social affairs. as a priority, latvia should set as a goal to call on the member states struggling with high unemployment to implement, as a matter of urgency, structural reforms in their labour markets to improve the situation, with a specific focus on young people. another aim should be to further facilitate labour mobility in the eu. latvia should aim to conclude an agreement with the european parliament on eures regulation (the eu job search portal) as part of this wider objective. this should be accompanied by a presidency-led communication campaign to inform the european citizens about their rights as well as job opportunities in the other member states. paldies!
the question posed by the blue card. mrs harms, can you tell me who the strategists were and when they decided to break up iraq, to break up libya and to break up syria?
madam president, first of all i owe the vice-president an apology, because we are behind schedule and i have a meeting that i have to rush to. very briefly a few remarks. madam vice-president, you said we need unity, and i could not agree more. the unity is to be provided primarily under your leadership. the moment we have a fragmentation of messaging, i think we will have no unity, and we will also have some czech politicians that will be moving away from the common line. secondly, aid: we are doing a lot and we can do more, and i think the member states can contribute. financial assistance is important, but it is not the alpha and omega of everything. i think that we are dealing with an administration that needs some significant support. i think we should be looking at opportunities for deploying experts, as was done in the past with acceding countries. thirdly and lastly, you have spoken about positive leverage in the context of russia. donald tusk mentioned an adequate, consistent and united strategy towards russia. we need it, but let us not fool ourselves. we need it, but the key lies in russia, and at the moment i see a principle of conditionality. any move has to be conditioned by moves on the russian side.
madam president, allow me to begin by thanking the high representative, mrs mogherini, for her opening remarks. in my relatively short political life, i have been forced to take a stand on the second war in europe. after the first one, there was a feeling of pain and injustice in many people in the balkans. plus an artificial state kosovo with two centers: an administrative one in pristina and a geopolitical one at the us military base camp bondsteel. what will remain in ukraine after the second european war of my life? how much needless bloodshed and how much hatred and what new military bases? we need a solution to the situation in ukraine that will pave the way for people of different nations, languages and confessions to live together. not in the form of today's apparent victory that will lay the foundation for future conflicts. the minsk spirit, the cessation of hostilities, the exchange of prisoners and, last but not least, constitutional reform, these are the policies we must pursue. this should also be proof that the european union really deserves the nobel peace prize.
madam president, madam mogherini, allow me to begin by thanking all the colleagues with whom i have had the opportunity to work on the resolution. however, i see in our assistance to the ukrainian reformers at the present time one great threat. if we really want to help ukraine with political and economic reforms, i think we have to change our approach. in the past, we have seen poor coordination or perhaps even rivalry between the various representatives of the european union. clear evidence of this is the misunderstanding between high representative ashton and commissioner full at the beginning of the ukrainian crisis. now the situation is repeated, and we do not speak with one voice in many cases. i would like to ask whether you will initiate a discussion on a long-term, unified and coordinated eu policy and a united voice towards ukrainian representatives?
madam high representative, thank you for your report and also for your call for unity. we are returning to the negotiations on ukraine five months after the adoption of the association agreement and we have no choice but to condemn once again the annexation of crimea and the military unrest supported by the russian federation. unfortunately, the situation hasn't changed much. we appreciate that there is a new government in ukraine after democratic elections. she has a will to reform, but she's in trouble because her country is devastated. ukraine needs our help, not only moral, political but above all material, and that is why i also welcome the financial support provided so far and the current increase in loans. the eu's external assistance is also focused on the implementation of the eu's external assistance strategy. i will be more specific because i was in ukraine in mid-november and i have repeatedly met with mps and school representatives and i am still in contact with them. i know that they are preparing a fundamental reform in the field of education and they expect our help. as in the case of the formerly post-communist countries, the oecd's expertise can be of great benefit in promoting these reforms today. i also see an opportunity here for effective european union assistance and i am addressing this call to the high representative for technical capacity assistance which is not expensive but effective. thank you for understanding.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, the commission is aware that my country, the czech republic, has recently sent 250 tonnes of machine-gun ammunition to kurdish fighters in iraq. she has contributed so much to the fight against islamist terrorists. we know very well, madam vice-president, that there is a battle for the future of the world in syria and iraq, and a front against terrorism is being waged across these countries. we know it's not a one-front operation. the other runs through eastern ukraine. our european parliament has already called russia's aggression in ukraine by its right name on several occasions and has supported the application of sanctions against the russian federation. sanctions started to work, but they didn't stop the war in eastern ukraine. that's why it's so important to continue the sanctions. and not only that, ukraine needs to defend itself against aggression. her troops are in desperate need of material assistance in the form of weapons and ammunition. just like the kurdish fighters in iraq, ukraine is defending europe.
in writing. the european year for development 2015 is an opportunity to raise awareness of the world's development challenges and to explore solutions to them. with the deadline for the millennium development goals approaching, this year will be a year to set development goals for the future. the international community will have to agree on a new approach to try to eradicate poverty, support economic growth in countries affected by natural disasters and conflicts, and address climate change issues. although one of the millennium development goals was achieved in 2010, i.e. reducing extreme poverty by half compared to 2000, this result is not satisfactory. moreover, the achievement of this objective has supported the economic development of china and india more than the work on development projects. the european union should therefore be more committed to measures to improve the situation of people living in the world's poorest countries. the european union is the largest donor of development aid in the world and therefore member states need to work together to reduce global poverty.
mr president, mrs mogherini, president al-sisi's government is certainly far from being considered ideal. on the other hand, it's the government that prevented the chaos, that prevented the economic disruption, that prevented the collapse of the state. and it turns out that in the countries of the arab spring, in the countries of the maghreb and mashreq, we actually have two options. one option is the rule of the strong hand, as demonstrated by president al-sisi, the other option is the linking of parliamentary democracy with the predominant ideological and religious trend in the country, that is, with islam, as demonstrated by tunisia or morocco, in fact the best example of this is turkey itself. of course, the second way is better than the first, but we should get used to it as europeans that neither of these ways leads and will not lead to the western model of democracy that we are used to, including respect for all human and civil rights. but either way, both of these paths are still better, and they're orders of magnitude better than what we're seeing in iraq, libya or syria. we should be prepared for this, we should be pragmatic about it, and i believe that mrs mogherini, because she has dealt with this subject, will be able to do it.
mr. chairman, i would like to thank mr. diamandouros and mrs. o'reilly for the results of their offices. as a new mep, i looked at the annual report because i wanted to know how much the european union is doing about transparency, ethics, fundamental rights and overall citizen involvement in european union policy. i must say that i was pleasantly surprised by the activity of the european ombudsman. that's why i supported you, mrs. o'reilly, in your bid for another term. no european union institution can succeed without the strong, hardworking and charismatic personality you have shown during your mandate and during the hearing. of course, the ombudsman has a number of tasks ahead of her that need to be implemented as quickly as possible in order to make her institution more accessible, especially to european citizens. as guardians of transparency, ms o'reilly and her office should also be more involved in transparency in the negotiation of the basic directives, such as the ttip example. in conclusion, madam ombudsman, allow me to make a smiling remark. the report notes that the 2013 annual report has been updated and that an interactive version in e-book format is available for download. i personally find this 'progress' ridiculous in the 21st century and ask that it be carried out automatically for the next period. i wish you all the best.
for the ppe group. madam president, former soviet dissident and human rights defender sergei kovalyev once said: 'the defence of human rights cannot be the internal affair of any state.' i am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the european council has not heard him. when the russian army annexed abkhazia in the early 1990's, europe could do little but express concern. when the russian army massacred 80,000 civilians in chechnya, europe could not call the perpetrators of these massacres war criminals. when the russian military occupied south ossetia in 2008, many european politicians blamed the war not on the kremlin but, in a completely contradictory way, on georgia itself. when russia occupied crimea last year, the protests in europe were much stronger, but they were just protests. russia has occupied crimea for almost a year. it was our fear, colleagues, that led us to donbass. that's one of the reasons why we have to support the new russian dissent, which includes alexei navalny.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, i think it is right that we feel the need to speak out about the fate of individuals who are facing prosecution while also engaging in political activity. there's always the risk that this is about criminalizing those who oppose power. at the same time, however, all parties should be given the opportunity to express their views. in my opinion, without evidence, the verdict against the navalny brothers cannot be considered manipulated. the statements made by the representatives of yves rocher are not such proof. at the same time, i do not share the belief that the registration of ngos that receive money for their political activities from abroad is automatically wrong. that russian law was modeled after the us, and i don't remember us ever protesting against an american law. i also don't believe we would tolerate, for example, ngos funded from islamic state resources. let's all use the same yardstick! justice for the navalny brothers must bring a court appeal, not further politicization of the process on our part.
madam chairman, i too deeply regret the attack of december 16th. i believe that there is a need to advocate respect for the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the application of fundamental human rights, even in crisis situations. we have all rediscovered in the past few days that these fundamental principles cannot be compromised. this idea should also be the basis of our approach in pakistan and should lead to support for all those who are discriminated against or who are advocating for the respect of freedom of religion, free access to education or a fair trial in this country. it should lead to the support of asia bibi, malala yousafzai and all the others.
in writing. – i will vote in favour of this resolution strongly condemning the peshawar school attack, in which tehrik-i-taliban terrorists killed at least defenceless 130 children. this horrific attack on children is an inexplicable inhuman act attaining the highest level of human barbarity and must be universally condemned. i consider this act a crime against the future of all children and the nation of pakistan. the eu and the international community as a whole must assist the pakistani authorities in the fight against terrorism that has affected the pakistani people for too long now. the government of pakistan must urgently take the necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of attacks and threats against educational institutions. these acts undermine fundamental rights, and in particular the right of women and girls to education. the government of pakistan must ensure that perpetrators of these cruel acts are promptly investigated, prosecuted and punished.
for the ppe group. madam president, i would like to point out that kyrgyzstan has recently abandoned the shameful criminalization of persons of different sexual orientation. while it is strange that women could be prosecuted for their sexual orientation six years after men, i also welcome the democratic progress that has been made in kyrgyzstan in the past few years. despite this partial improvement, there were draft laws last year against the alleged spread of homosexuality. it's definitely a step back. these laws are certainly inspired by the russian model and are unfortunate. instead of helping young people to find their own direction, to overcome problems, such as rejection by their loved ones, society has made this situation even worse. if the kyrgyz parliament thinks that the main problem of their country is people with minority sexual orientation, i deeply pity them. i trust that mrs mogherini will find time to address this urgent problem as well.
in writing. i would point out that the economic and social decline following the collapse of the soviet union is the underlying reason for the deterioration of the status of women and the spread of what could be called 'cultural nervousness'. it's the expression of that law banning the propaganda of homosexuality. although i see it as a step back, i would like to make two points. first of all, i recommend discretion. while we must be mindful of the universality of human rights, the journey to understanding lgbt rights has been long and difficult everywhere. it was not until the 1970's that the western world came to recognize homosexuality as not a mental disorder. it was not until 1993 that the world health organization removed homosexuality from its list of disorders. moreover, we must not forget that european colonialism has also complicated many things in the world. the infamous section 377 of the indian penal code, as well as other former british colonies, has criminalized sexual activity that is "against the order of nature" since the 1860s. according to available data, 80 un member states criminalize homosexuality, and in six states it is a capital crime. kyrgyzstan is not exactly the world's worst example of lgbt injustice. the second point concerns the promotion of homosexuality itself. while i defend the right of all to freedom of expression, i consider sexual exhibitionism of any kind to be an uncultured expression of freedom. and a source of just as needless and growing conflict.
mr president, i also supported the ombudsman's report because, in my view, the key role of the european ombudsman is to help the institutions of the european union to increase their openness, efficiency and accessibility to citizens, thereby strengthening citizens' trust in the european union. the fact that ms o'reilly has made the ombudsman's annual report available online for the first time and is successfully running counselling also through the interactive counsellor on the ombudsman's website shows her progressive style of work, which i greatly appreciate. since i fully support the ombudsman's ultimate objective, namely to contribute to strengthening the structures and institutions of accountability and transparency at union level in order to promote good governance for all citizens and residents of the european union and to improve the quality of democracy in the european union, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. on 15 january 2015, i supported the 2013 activity report of the european ombudsman in the european parliament. it must be said that this institution is very important from the point of view of the protection of rights within the eu. from the point of view of eu law, it deals with complaints and petitions about situations that may occur in the daily life of any citizen. the ombudsman's work can have a significant impact on citizens' trust in the european institutions. the eppo report must first of all lead meps to think about how to improve both their own work and that of the eu institutions, so that we all become closer to the eu citizens themselves. this is particularly so in the light of the current crisis of confidence and legitimacy of the eu institutions. i personally find the greatest alienation and absolute lack of transparency in the work of the so-called troika. the esc should focus in the coming year on examining the commission's role in the troika, particularly in the light of the fact that the commission also has responsibilities for the implementation and safeguarding of the treaties. another huge mistake of the eu institutions and the commission is the reluctance to inform the public or even meps themselves in detail about the preparations for the ttip. i am therefore very pleased that the european ombudsman has made it a priority in the exercise of her mandate to strengthen her role as the eu's watchdog on transparency, also in the context of the ttip proposal under discussion.
in writing. today we discussed the 2013 annual report of the european ombudsman. i personally attach great importance to this institution, as it deals with petitions and complaints about situations that may occur in the daily life of any citizen. the ombudsman's work can have a significant impact on citizens' trust in the european institution, which we know today is not at the highest level. i was interested to find that the main topics of the cases examined in 2013 were transparency, citizen participation in eu decision-making, fundamental rights and a culture of public service. the ombudsman's report must make us, the members of the european parliament, reflect on how we can improve our work to get closer to the main priorities and interests of the citizens we represent on the european parliament's floor. as the european ombudsman has identified as a priority in the exercise of her mandate to strengthen her role as the 'guardian of eu transparency', including in the context of the ttip treaty proposal under discussion, where the european parliament has long complained about the lack of transparency and information from the negotiations, i voted in favour of this report.
mr. chairman, i voted for this resolution because i find the attacks on civilians that we are witnessing unacceptable. the long-term instability in libya and the number of immigrants have a major impact on the stability of the european union, especially the southern states. it is important to me that libya remains whole and that the european union also contributes to ensuring that arms are not being supplied to the parties to the conflict in libya.
in writing. this week, the european parliament voted on a motion for a resolution on the conflict in libya, in the context of the growing danger of the collapse of the basic functioning of the libyan state. i voted in favour of this motion because i consider it necessary for parliament to draw attention to the deteriorating situation not only in this country but also to the negative impact on the stability of the whole region faced with the dramatic increase in refugees and asylum seekers, the spread of terrorism and the arms trade.
in writing. nine months of civil war, the intervention of foreign troops and the overthrow of the gaddafi regime in 2011 have led to chaos and destabilisation in libya and the surrounding region. the ambitions of the libyan people were thwarted by political divisions and violence that escalated into all-out civil war. the recklessness of the bombing of the libyan territory, in which some eu member states also took part, is striking today. clearly, no one had thought about the complex ethnic-tribal-religious situation that was a ticking time bomb in this country and the region. whoever decided to carry out this attack should be brought to justice before an international court. the absence of an effective state authority has led to an uncontrolled proliferation of weapons throughout the region, to a surge in violence south of the libyan border. the instability of the entire region, the absence of a social system, the disruption of the economy and the lack of any hope for a better future have led to a rising tide of migration towards the eu, which we face with utter helplessness, only to see a growing tragedy. i must say that we have not learned anything from this situation, because even today there are calls from many quarters for the deployment of armed forces from abroad to stabilise the situation. the joint motion for a resolution was well under way and contained, to a limited extent, the criticisms mentioned above, but it still did not reflect the situation in the country realistically enough, which is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. the chaos. that's one word to describe the situation in libya after the overthrow of muammar gaddafi in 2011. this destabilization has led to a dispersal of weapons throughout the region, to a resurgence of violence south of the libyan border. social instability has led some of those who have lost hope to head north to europe. it's not just a growing wave of migration that we don't know how to deal with. it could also be the cause of the horror that pope francis recently warned the european parliament about: the conversion of the mediterranean sea into a cemetery. what ill-conceived strategy was behind the decision to bomb libya? did those in charge really have no idea of the complexity of the ethnic and religious situation in that country and in the region in question? will no one be punished for the tragedies that he caused? today, we hear from many quarters calls for the deployment of foreign armed forces to stabilize the situation in libya. there's probably no other way. but i think we should listen carefully to those who want to keep the foreign soldiers from being europeans. let's say it was african union troops. the african union, initiated by gaddafi. the joint motion for a resolution contains some of the elements of this criticism, but it does not sufficiently reflect the real situation in the country, which is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the current situation in libya because it rightly draws attention, among other things, to the number of migrants trying to leave libyan territory, since there is practically no longer a functioning state in libya that can provide its citizens with even basic security. all member states must be involved in addressing this situation and provide effective assistance to refugees, which may include coptic christians.
in writing. — following the june 2014 elections in libya, a civil conflict burst out as rival governments and parliaments emerged. i voted in favour of the proposed resolution on the situation in libya which equally condemns the violence on civilians resulting from this instable political situation, and the reluctance from both sides to engage in a peace process conducted by the un. the conflict led to worrying mass displacement to tunisia, undermining that country’s stability, and favours the growing influence of islamist militias in certain parts of the country (isis and al-qa’ida in the islamic maghreb). we are calling on the eu to place asset freezes and travel bans upon those responsible for human rights violations, and on those boycotting the un negotiations.
in writing. first of all, i would like to distance myself once again from the eu officials and certain statesmen of the eu member states who have been involved in unleashing political passions in ukraine. the passions that resulted first in the overthrow of a duly elected - though often rightly criticized - president and then in civil war. organizing parliamentary elections in conditions of civil war, media and physical violence is a legitimization of the coup only for those who do not understand what freedom and democracy are. democracy is not the "final solution to the russian question" by burning people in odessa or shelling residential areas of donbass. democracy is an agreement between different social groups, different ethnicities, different confessions. not the victory of oligarchs over the poor, not the victory of one language group over another, not the victory of one patriarchy over another. we must make it clear to the statesmen in kiev, moscow and washington that we consider the only possible beginning to resolve the situation in ukraine an immediate cessation of hostilities. in a pluralistic society such as ukraine's, diversity must be reflected in the constitutional order. reforms are needed to strengthen self-government, protect ethnic and religious minorities, and ensure economic development. as the joint resolution on this subject was taking a course which was totally unacceptable to me, i voted against.
in writing. i supported today's resolution on the situation in ukraine, as it is still necessary to emphasise the requirements to ensure the territorial integrity of ukraine and to condemn the aggressive policy of the current leadership of the russian federation. i support the effort to establish further conditions, the fulfilment of which will be a precondition for the non-further extension of sanctions against the russian federation. i also welcome the mention of the suspension of the supply of french warships to the russian federation, which i also advocated here in the european parliament.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the draft resolution on the situation in ukraine in order to keep the focus on this very issue and thus contribute to a peaceful resolution. i am glad that we could have once again expressed the solidarity with ukraine and its people, many of whom live in continuously deteriorating conditions. i am satisfied by the explicit mention of the need to continue with the sanctions against russia and with the call to have the sanctions as a part of a broader approach towards russia. i equally welcome the condemnation of russia’s aggressive and expansionist policy. on the other hand, the resolution rightly expects ukraine to implement deep reforms.
in writing. — the worsening of the democratic situation in a long-standing partner like egypt is worrying, and this is why i voted in favour of the proposed resolution on the situation in egypt. the text is well balanced and on the one hand acknowledges the difficult socio-economic and political background in egypt following the 2011 revolution and the military takeover in 2013, while on the other hand strongly condemning the numerous breaches in the rule of law that have led to mass arrests of political opponents and the banning of ngos receiving foreign funding. it also denounces the climate of fear and insecurity placed upon civil society (protesters, journalists, women and lgbti people). egypt is an important partner for the eu, but it needs to urgently make deep democratic and economic reforms.
i voted against the proposal of the european people's party and i would like to point out the hypocrisy of those who say that they want to reduce the bureaucracy of the european union, while at the same time they are the ones who support the creation of a new investment fund for the european commission. i would like to say that this fund is a very hypocritical thing, it says that the european union will provide an investment of 315 billion euros. in fact, they have a budget of 8 billion euros to serve as a certain guarantee. this means that in the best case scenario, the european commission will only push out private investment, it will not be additional investment, it will be investment instead of other private investment. and if it doesn't, if it attracts new investments, then that's even worse, those will be investments that would never actually come on the market, because no investor, no bank would ever want to finance them, and only with this additional guarantee will they come. i voted against it.
in writing. i voted against paragraph 6 of the s&d resolution. of course i'm against illegal tax fraud. however, i cannot call on the eu to act on this issue, because it is another step in the transfer of additional tax powers to the undemocratic and unaccountable eu institutions. the second part of the paragraph calls for further european legislation. the free cannot support the growth of eu legislation. i voted against the first part of paragraph 9 of the ppe resolution. i was elected to fight new european legislation, to repeal existing european laws, to support the devolving of powers back to the member states and to campaign for leaving the eu. this text concerns the withdrawal of eu proposals, i voted against the criticism of the withdrawal of these proposals. only an unelected commission can initiate new european legislation, or begin to amend or repeal existing legislation. none of those for whom citizens vote can change eu laws. the eu is therefore not the legitimate legislator of the rules that the czech republic must follow. i abstained on the second part of paragraph 9 of the resolution. while i am strongly in favour of reducing and repealing eu legislation, i am not against maternity leave and i could be mistakenly attacked by other political parties if i voted in favour. svoboda believes that legislation on maternity leave should be decided at member state level.
mr. speaker, thank you also for the excellent pronunciation of my last name, which is admirable in this parliament. i would like to say one important thing about this issue. if turkey is to be considered a democratic country, it must stop restricting and suppressing the press. any restriction on social networks and blocking them, any restriction on opposition journalists leads to turkey not being seen as a partner. i come from a family with a long tradition, with members who died in world war i and world war ii, with members who were in concentration camps under both the communist and nazi regimes. and i firmly believe that turkey has more to offer and that turkey will take this opportunity to show europe that it is a truly democratic country and that it belongs in our space.
in writing. i deeply appreciate the results turkey has achieved in recent years in terms of economic development, but also some of its domestic policy measures, for example in terms of limiting the role of the military as an arbiter of democracy. on the other hand, it is high time to say that the eu-turkey association agreement should be terminated by the european union if the turkish government continues to violate freedom of speech and to deny the kurdish people's right to self-determination. i consider ankara's most dangerous policy to be its policy towards syria. turkey's support for various groups fighting with arms against the syrian government, the creation of logistical support for them, the authorization of the transport of weapons and people from abroad for these militant groups, the diplomatic and propaganda support for the war in syria - all these are actions that were not aimed at destabilizing syria from the beginning. now, everyone understands that the result of this policy is the creation of fanatical militants of the so-called islamic state. he's destabilizing the entire region, including turkey. and ultimately, as the recent criminal terrorist attacks in paris have shown, it is destabilizing europe as well. the european union should be an organisation or institution in which problems are solved by democratic means. we cannot tolerate the continued violation of human rights and the violation of international law by a state with which we have an association agreement. i voted in favour of the joint resolution today.
in writing. i consider myself a friend of turkey, and i have a very positive relationship with that country, which is why i am all the more concerned about the situation which is the subject of this resolution. the unprecedented police crackdown, culminating in the frantic arrest of a number of journalists and media representatives, is, in my view, incompatible with freedom of the media and freedom of speech, the basic pillars of a democratic society. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement. government efforts to ban access to social media, restrict access to freedom of expression and pressure on media and journalists cannot be tolerated. it is essential that europe supports those states which share its values. therefore, given that turkey is an acceding candidate country, the council should indeed clearly identify these issues and ask turkey to remedy them.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the draft resolution on ‘freedom of expression in turkey: recent arrests of journalists, media executives and systematic pressure against media’. turkey is a strategic partner of the eu and a candidate country for accession. the recent arrests and pressure on the media are therefore drawing major attention, and rightly so, and deserve a clear political message that such behaviour is unacceptable in any democratic country. we cannot make any exceptions when fundamental freedoms are in danger, in the eu or outside. any progress in the accession negotiations is subject to deeper reforms in turkey and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this common resolution on press and media freedom in turkey, following the recent arrests of journalists. i strongly condemn any restriction of press freedom which is too often curtailed. the recent paris attacks must represent a watershed moment in the struggle to protect this freedom globally. we cannot turn a blind eye to the deterioration in the rule of law and fundamental rights in turkey. a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and judicial independence. these rights urgently need to be treated as a matter of priority in turkey.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the joint resolution on turkey. the eu-turkey issue is perhaps a never-ending odyssey. on the one hand, it is the eastern gateway to the eu and the channel through which europe has always been in contact with middle eastern culture, and a country with which we share a common history. but on the other hand, it is a country with a culture, a value system and a lifestyle that are very different from what we are used to in the eu. although turkey has taken many steps to improve its democracy and human rights situation over the past decade, it is currently experiencing a significant backsliding from standards already achieved. in this country today, we can observe a growing restriction on the independence and impartiality of the courts, a growing intolerance of the current government towards any political opposition, public protests and critical media, and a denial of the right of self-determination of the kurdish people. i regret to say that if this trend continues, the eu-turkey association agreement should be terminated by the european union. i consider ankara's most dangerous policy at the moment to be its support for various armed groups fighting against the syrian government. we cannot tolerate the continued violation of human rights and the violation of international law by a state with which we have an association agreement.
in the current situation of heightened security risks, it is certainly right to pursue a consistent approach to seeking ways to increase the security of eu citizens. in the context of schengen cooperation, i believe that it is necessary to make effective use of all the instruments of cooperation currently available to all member states in the field of justice and home affairs. the solution is certainly not to dismantle the schengen area, but to use all the instruments that are part of schengen cooperation. in this context, i therefore welcome the position of the ppe, which has strongly advocated the preservation of the basic principles of schengen.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all let me assure vice-president katainen and the minister that my group does consider the investment plan to be a big issue, as they have said themselves. in fact i would even say, vice-president katainen, madam minister, that you are partly or already on the road for one reason: i think that you are raising expectations in the correct way because the three pillars on which the plan is based are exactly the pillars that businesses are expecting. it is a question of regaining confidence. it is a question of confidence that the eu institutions are able to address the real issues with real instruments in a proper way. we are raising expectations. we are not halfway but we are on the way and i think it makes it even more important to deliver. vice-president katainen has mentioned that he considers the pillar on the internal market to be even more important. i would tend to agree. i think that this is really the case. you will remember, mr katainen, the interaction we had in our group on one issue on which we partly disagree. i was looking for a conditionality in terms of structural reforms. you explained that you found it perhaps burdensome, that it has to be simple. i would say that maybe there are ways to make it simple, not only in concrete projects but in general vis-à-vis that specific member state. but let us leave that to one side. i understand this has not been taken on board. i would make a different point alongside what you have just said. if the eu is coming with an investment plan, i would expect the commission to try at least to impose on the individual member states their own national investment plans. you are now getting a certain amount of input. different projects are being proposed. i have seen some of the lists. some are more encouraging, some are less so. i have confidence that people who know what economic viability is will make the right choice. but i would be much more confident if, in the framework of these submissions, we were to see concrete issues addressed by the national administrations in terms of completing their own bit of the internal market. enforcing the legislation: the commission knows very well where and on what issues individual member states are failing. better regulation, administrative burden. as mr kamall is a true liberal i can agree with him that cutting red tape is an important issue. i have been in business for the last nine years and when i speak to business people they name it number one. once again, i can imagine that, in the framework of the national investment plan or whatever this document will be called, you can demand concrete steps be taken. two remarks to finish with. first, i would have expected somewhat more from the latvian presidency in terms of what we were presented with today. i would have expected you to say not only that there were meetings – there was a meeting on monday – but what happened at the meetings. what is the commitment of the member states? what is the message? what do you want to leave with us here in parliament? otherwise we know it is important and we know that meetings are taking place. second, i wish you the best of luck. we will provide the support but we want to see the delivery, also on the two pillars vis-à-vis the member states.
in writing. europe has considerable investment potential, the exploitation of which would create new jobs, stimulate youth employment and strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy. the strategic investment fund aims to remove barriers to the full exploitation of untapped potential by supporting strategic investments, in particular in infrastructure, research and education. in order to make this ambitious project a success, it is necessary to set clear rules at an early stage to ensure maximum transparency in the selection of specific projects, to avoid conflicts with already approved financial instruments, in the field of transport, for example with the connecting europe facility, and to focus on an overall more efficient use of the european structural and investment funds. i wish president juncker that the investment plan will be a successful new start for his commission.
mr president, commissioner, after the not-so-successful lima conference, the public is once again looking to the international community for a breakthrough agreement. the conference will aim to keep global warming below 2%. i think that is a laudable goal, but i would caution against getting lost in the reduction of numbers. the european union's plans to prevent global warming are very ambitious. but we also need to focus on how to convince the big economic players, and not just the us and china, but also, for example, russia, india and other big countries, to join the european union's objectives and not gain an unfair competitive advantage. without a truly global agreement to reduce co2 emissions, the european union's plan will only result in industry moving outside the european union, with an impact on employment, but no impact on the global climate. i think it is very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but we must not lose sight of employment, energy prices, and above all ourselves and our homes.
mr. president, the lima talks have brought promise but no major breakthrough. i'm not at all sure that the world's decision-makers have really understood that the failure of these negotiations also means security and social risks and climate migration with all the known consequences. we're running out of time because the planetary feedback mechanisms are already in place. the methane on the arctic shelf is melting, and these mechanisms could, in the near future, cancel out any of our efforts. we in the european union ourselves have failed time and again to put in place proactive measures. we're stopping the air traffic control clock, we screwed up the carbon leakage sheet, we're fixing the ets system for a long time. now it's the turn of paris. the latvian presidency has repeatedly stressed that preparing for paris is one of its top priorities, thank you for that. the commission is speaking pragmatically here, and i thank you for that. we still have a chance, but what we don't prepare in the next six months, we won't agree on in paris. and if we don't agree on action in paris, the next thing we're gonna be talking about is adapting to climate change.
mr president, for many people, norway is a country where everyone would like to live. except for me. for me, norway is a country where hundreds, if not thousands of children are taken away from the local social services every year for no apparent reason. i ask, how long will we ignore these practices? how long are we going to criticize every country and not look at the country that's next to us? i have personally seen that legal remedies do not help to remedy this situation. little wonder, then, that mothers in lithuania and poland abducted their children back to their home countries. another example is eva michaláková, from the czech republic, who fights for her children. she was never proven guilty, and yet the children can't go back to their mother. mother cannot hug them and cannot speak czech with them. so i ask you, how long are we going to ignore the fact that citizens of the czech republic and the european union have no right to be... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr. chairman, my contribution is about germany, so perhaps it will be of interest to you as well. in germany, since january 1 of this year, a minimum wage law has been in effect, which has to be obeyed by hauliers, often from eastern european countries. the law requires a minimum wage of eur 8,5 per hour. that's four times the czech minimum wage, by the way! i believe that in this situation we can safely say that the minimum wage is a disruption of the single market, that it is a disruption of the wage systems of the individual member states and that it is, in fact, an indirect obstacle to the free movement of services. i think that this is a violation of one of the fundamental principles of the european union, that we cannot accept this and that the commission must do something about it. moreover, it is not at all clear whether there is a legal basis for this law to apply to services provided by the carrier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a fact in the relations between the european union and russia which i consider to be alarming. the russian ministry of education has issued an official document calling on representatives of universities to proactively inform about the activities of the european union on the territory of russia, which it describes as european propaganda. we who have experienced totalitarianism know that the russian state wants to gain greater control over schools and the academic community. the russian ministry wants information about the erasmus programme, it wants to inform students about the official russian position before the talks with experts from the european union. these actions are considered by russian officials as a hotbed of destructive ideas that are very dangerous for students. i want to draw the attention of the european parliament to this situation and to support the european union representation in moscow which has expressed its concern. the unilateral move by the russian foreign ministry is a dangerous signal about the restriction of freedom. students have always been at the forefront of pro-democratic change in society, and the russian regime is apparently afraid of this.
author. - mr president, let me briefly present the oral question on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. as you know, this committee is responsible for the area of intellectual property rights. i dare to say that this area is of great interest for a large number of committee members who understand the importance of intellectual property rights in the 21st century. i think that the commission is of the same view, and i would like to thank the commission for its quick reaction when providing us with its understanding of the issues raised in our question. while drafting this question, we have been motivated by the fact that, given the importance of intellectual property rights for the future growth of the european union, we should use all our instruments in the most effective way in order to get the best information available. we could use the information obtained not only for the purposes of enforcement evaluation, but also, for example, while thinking about the future reform of copyright. that is why we would like to ask the commissioner to confirm that there will be no duplication of tasks between the observatory and the group of experts which the commission would like to establish, according to the action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, and that no related unnecessary financial implications will take place, and to confirm that parliament will be invited to send experts who will take part in this proposed group of experts as observers.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, i welcomed the question for oral answer to the commission, put to the legal affairs committee. i consider it essential that the european parliament be sufficiently involved in the work of experts in the field of modernisation of intellectual property law, who must respond adequately to the rapid development and evolution of this sector, especially as regards the internet. i would like to expand and supplement this question a bit. the field of intellectual property rights is an area of particular importance, given that the cultural and artistic production sector in europe directly employs over 7 million europeans and is a sector that attracts young workers 19% of jobs are occupied by people under the age of 30. this sector has grown in terms of employment despite the economic crisis. i would therefore like to ask the commission what its vision is for intellectual property reform, how it can preserve an intellectual property system that preserves creativity and ensures a return on investment, and how it can ensure a balance between the legal protection of authors and creators and public access to works. finally, i would like to know how the ttip negotiations will affect the protection and development of intellectual property from an eu perspective.
mr president, i very much welcome the fact that the european parliament has taken the initiative again in the key area of digital and internet technologies. i believe that 2015 will be a very significant year not only in terms of extending the mandate of the igf, but also in terms of transferring control of the internet assigned numbers authority to the international community, but also in terms of strengthening the influence of those independent initiatives or platforms, such as the netmundial mentioned above, which brings together very important internet players. i think, as a large and important part of the community, that it is very important that the un general assembly extends the mandate of the internet governance forum, because it is one of the key platforms for discussion about the important communication tool that the internet is, not only for communication between people, but also in terms of its growing impact on our economies. the forum made some very important recommendations, i would like to mention two of them - these are the competitive regulatory aspects for the internet user, but also data security and user protection. from this point of view, i think its influence is very important and i am in favour of its extension.
mr president, i fully agree with the comments made so far: yes, we must renew the mandate of the igf; and yes, we must continue the move towards more international governance of the technical framework of the internet and the many economic and other services that use it. the digital single market will be and is at the heart of the future of the european economy. as the resolution says: growth related to the internet economy is forecast to be almost 11% in the eu, with a contribution to gdp expected to rise from 3.8% in 2010 to 5.7% in 2016. these numbers do not even take into account the positive indirect benefits of the digital single market on the rest of the physical world. the eu and this house must have a role in this discussion as we cannot leave the fundamental regulation of the digital single market in the hands of bodies beyond our control. but i must also note that international governance of the internet is also a double-edged sword. just as we are getting a stronger voice in its governance, so too are countries that have no respect for fundamental and human rights. the eu must continue to work to form a united front with like-minded countries against those which wish to abuse this and other forums to justify their censorship of freedom of expression, assembly and access to information for their citizens. we must unite against any great firewalls and mass surveillance on the internet. we must accept today that full and free access to information and the right to share information are the only way that humanity can move forward.
mr president, i have rarely seen such a broad understanding and agreement across the political spectrum. it shows the importance of the european community. if we can agree on this, then we can really be a strong, decisive player in this international debate on such a crucial issue, if, of course, the mandate of the world internet governance forum is extended, as we all support here. i hope and wish that our representatives will support the principles that you all mentioned here, in particular the principle of openness, the principle of equal access, the principle of the european digital single market and net neutrality. and i would also like to stress that security and protection of intellectual property, copyright and protection against abuse are coming to the fore. ladies and gentlemen, i trust our representatives will uphold these principles.
the question posed by the blue card. madam member, although i know this is not a black and white issue, i would like to ask you if you are really so convinced that only by proving the origin of the meat in a given food, in a given product, you will improve the quality of that meat. so, by labelling the origin of this meat, you automatically increase the quality of this food. and then i would like to ask you whether you have actually received specific requests from specific citizens for us to approve the indication of the origin of the meat in the product in question.
mr president, this debate today is a kind of déjà vu, it is not new, we have already experienced it here, we experienced it here a few years ago and there were the same objections back then, which were based on the lobbying materials of the data processors. there was a threat of price increases even then. we've only been partially successful, and in the meantime, there's been a whole series of food fraud scandals and a significant decline in consumer confidence. that's the result. now, the results of the european consumer association survey show that more than 90% of the respondents want the origin of the meat to be clearly indicated. consumers not only welcome such information on the packaging, but are rather surprised that it has not been there for a long time, because they do not understand why processed meat should not be subject to the same strict and quality regulations as unprocessed meat. this is regardless of how the rules are enforced in the member state concerned. we are not talking about any small quantity of meat, in some eu countries up to half of all meat products are without any indication of origin as a result of this situation, and this is alarming in my view. there's so much lobbying going on right now, so much fear of price increases and bureaucracy, that i feel like this debate is really in the right place, and it has to show, among other things, who they listen to first, consumers or industry. we're voting on whether the commission should work on the proposal, not on the legislation itself. why would anyone want to kill the discussion in the first place? and if we are to ask the commission any questions today, i would ask first of all the question of price. we really agree that the price is the key, we agree that the customers don't want to pay. but some producers have already adopted some form of such softening today and are clearly competitive, which raises the fundamental question of whether the commission drew on the right sources for this concern or whether it considered, for example, the results of consumer organisations' inquiries.
in writing. 90% of european consumers want to know the origin of the meat ingredients in processed foods. the data is based on the statements of a number of consumer organisations, but also on a survey carried out by the commission. the origin of meat is generally of paramount importance to eu consumers. some producers have therefore opted for the indication of the origin of meat on a voluntary basis, while others do not provide this information to consumers, arguing that the indication of the origin of meat in processed food could lead to an increase in the price of the final product of 1550%. on the contrary, surveys of consumer organisations have quantified the estimated average price increases in cent units. i believe that increasing the transparency and clarity of information can help to restore european consumers' confidence in the european food market. at the same time, however, it is important to ensure that the increase in information on food packaging does not have a negative impact on the availability of these products. given the wide variation in the data on the possible impact on the final price of the products, does the commission have a precise cost analysis for the mandatory introduction of the indication of the origin of the meat in processed products?
i feel it is my duty to ensure that the european union guarantees the quality and safety of foodstuffs through legislation. if i thought that the mandatory indication of the origin of the meat ingredients in processed foods would improve their quality, i would certainly vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. even if it means a higher price. i don't think that's what it is. who among us today can claim that meat from one country or another guarantees quality? i'm sure none of us would dare say it that way. the reasons for the indication of the origin of meat in meat products which have been raised here today, such as the possibility of choice, knowledge of origin, monitoring of the whole production and distribution chain, are all legitimate interests and reasons which can mean greater comfort for the consumer. however, they should not be a reason to impose a new obligation on each manufacturer. as you know, many producers are already taking advantage of this consumer interest by offering to add the indication of origin of the meat components as a supplementary standard to their products. thus, any consumer can already choose a manufacturer who can offer him this superior standard. in the context of competitive advantage, there will certainly be more. however, i see my responsibility in ensuring and promoting quality for every consumer and it has no direct link with the place of origin.
mr. president, i would like to point out that ammunition depots near the czech-slovak border in vrbětice, zlín county, exploded repeatedly last autumn. former military facilities were leased by the czech state as ammunition depots to private companies and under circumstances that have not yet been clarified, two of them exploded, two people died, several thousand people had to be evacuated, the damage to life, health and property of citizens and legal entities is enormous. vrbětice's case has shown that the czech state has largely neglected the protection of its citizens in this area and that its legislation is inadequate in many respects. however, the union rules also contain shortcomings. the eu member states are to transpose the major accident hazard control directive into national law by june 2015. however, this does not apply to military and paramilitary objects, so this european regulation would not apply to the case of ammunition storage in vrbětice. nor does the legislation address the transport of these materials from hazardous storage, public awareness and emergency preparedness. i therefore ask the european commission, also in view of the vrbetica case and its cross-border dimension, to re-analyze eu law and propose changes to european legislation to better protect the civilian population, increase its participation in the prevention of accidents involving dangerous chemicals and ensure a corresponding role for municipalities.
the financial injection of €1 billion in the form of prefinancing for a project to support the young unemployed is a crucial step taken by the new european commission. the commission as a whole should be thanked for its courage, and in particular commissioner thyssen. thank you. thank you. you told the commissioner that the later we pass this bill, the worse it gets. i agree, and i'll add that the second essential need is a change of mentality. the czech philosopher wenceslaus of belgrade said that work is not just any activity, but only the one that changes the world. when we look for ways to bring hundreds of thousands of unemployed young people in europe into the workforce, we are looking for ways in which these young people can change our world, our europe. it's a journey from passivity to activity. change must come not only in the system of support but also, and this is absolutely necessary, in our attitude to work. they cannot all be elite lawyers, eminent doctors, or world politicians. we need great service work as urgently as we need good craftsmen and skilled workers. the situation of youth unemployment is alarming in some countries and threatens the economic stability of europe as a whole. it is therefore high time to stop pushing the age limits of vulnerable groups and to start motivating young people to become self-sufficient, economically independent from their parents or the state. let's not look for complicated solutions, but let's show young people that working, doing business and getting an education is worth it. that the world can be changed for the better by anyone who does their job to the best of their ability.
the question posed by the blue card. mrs delli, thank you for your emotional speech, but i am asking you for the second time in this chamber if you have ever studied the dual system in austria or germany, if you have ever wondered why unemployment is so low there. i think there's no room for emotional gestures right now, but for us to take action.
mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for bringing this matter up. it's nothing new, of course, these numbers are alarming. when you start productive age and you find out that no one wants to hire you, it's a huge burden to start life, and it turns out that the state has actually failed if it runs an education system that produces the unemployed. and even if in some member states unemployment is above 50%, the system is a failure. if the system fails, the causes of the failure must be analysed, no sudden measures will have a long-term effect. the problem of youth unemployment cannot be taken out of context, of course, with the quality of the education system, but also with its targeting. i did an internship in singapore, and their education system is incredibly youth-focused, both on their strengths and their challenges, and i think that's exactly what we need to target our education system. we have to admit that we are lagging behind in many ways, and in relation to the asian education systems, which have already overtaken us in many ways. i would like to wish you, commissioner, a positive outlook on the problem of youth unemployment. as the commission's work is divided into a system, a horizontal overview, i would like you to succeed in doing the same, because the system cannot be solved by this one proposal, and i am sure you are aware of that.
commissioner, i welcome the proposal for prefinancing the programme to increase youth employment and, of course, i will also monitor the effectiveness of its use, because unemployment is a threat, a threat of exclusion, a frustration of young people, which we also sometimes witness. i can also confirm that existing programmes can also initiate entrepreneurial activities, especially in regions that have some economic or geographical disadvantage. and i could name specific young people who have found better jobs as a result of their internships. and these programs, of course, cannot replace a stable, sustainable, competitive environment for our entrepreneurs, for the development of business in the czech lands. but i think that is also in the hands of the european parliament, when we sometimes vote on unnecessary regulations here. there is certainly also an important role for education systems, and where employers have not yet become involved, they should be given the opportunity to be involved in the preparation of training programmes and in the follow-up. the youth initiative cannot be seen as just a passive draw, but i see it as an investment in change and in long-term activities, and for this contribution to these programmes, thank you.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, let me thank our rapporteur, inés ayal sendero. i would like to thank the commission not only for its rapid work and its objective approach to the adaptation of this important directive for road safety, but also for its long-standing commitment to fair and consistent enforcement of traffic rules on european roads. the current proposal, which responds to the european court of justice's ruling, will contribute to improving road safety, which is an integral part of eu policies. it is also one of the measures to meet our commitment to halve the number of road fatalities by 2020. i therefore welcome the fact that the directive covers the most frequent and serious traffic offences, namely speeding, not wearing a seat belt, failing to stop at a red light, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, driving in the wrong lane, using a mobile phone or other communication device while driving and, in the case of motorcyclists, driving without a helmet. by adopting the proposal, we will contribute to the equal treatment of all drivers who commit offences outside their country of origin in all member states. this will help to protect responsible drivers from those who often feel they can get away with their crimes abroad. thank you again for all your hard work.
mr president, there are five types of crisis in ukraine. first, a financial crisis. the danger of a technical default by the national bank has not been eliminated. the second crisis is an economic crisis because ukraine’s gdp is only a third of what it was compared with 1992, and if we take into account the situation in a neighbouring state, belarus, there it is 260%. a social crisis: on 28 january there was a protest meeting in kiev and the miners cried ‘give us back yanukovych, at least under yanukovych we had the salaries’. there is also an inequality crisis, because in ukraine the 100 richest ukrainians have a 38% share of the nation’s property. there is also a humanitarian crisis because the gangster regime in kiev is organising a human organs business.
commissioner, we all have a responsibility, the european union and its countries have a responsibility, the european parliament has a responsibility, you have a responsibility. when russia annexed abkhazia, europe was silent. when the russian army murdered 80,000 civilians in chechnya, europe remained silent. when the russian military occupied south ossetia in 2008, europe raised a warning finger. when russia occupied crimea, europe could only offer a series of protests. if it weren't for the indifference of europe, there would be no war in eastern ukraine. we must break the long chain of european silence, or the kremlin's aggression will continue and we will be responsible for it. we support the struggle of ukraine by all means, political, economic and military, including arms supplies. time is short and the water is rising. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. yes, of course, diplomatic solutions are the most important. let's wait till tomorrow and the day after. if they fail now, there is no choice but to support ukraine strongly and clearly.
in writing. female genital mutilation is a brutal violation of the human rights of millions of women and girls around the world. it is fitting that this problem is commemorated annually on february 6 as the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. it is not acceptable, however, that the european fight against this intervention, which carries health risks and immense suffering, should continue to take the form of written resolutions. the need for active action is also demonstrated by who statistics showing the partial or total circumcision of some 500 000 women and girls living in europe and more than 125 million worldwide. female circumcision has no health benefits. rather, it causes long-term problems and, in some cases, death. the idea that this procedure is performed on unsuspecting underage girls who then have to deal with medical problems and psychological trauma is absolutely shocking. therefore, we cannot afford to accept this practice here, or in third countries. it is necessary to counter the trend of medicalisation and the export of eu girls to developing countries for the purpose of this intervention. i urge the commission and the member states to take a greater interest in combating fgm not only on their own territory but also in developing countries, especially in this year dedicated to development aid and cooperation.
for the group gue/ngl commissioner, as far as the international protection of children is concerned, in my view the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is perhaps the most important and comprehensive document. the experience to date shows that when states that accede to the convention respect its provisions, apply its meaning and interpretation correctly, they are able to deal with children's problems with relative success. and since statistics show an increasing trend in cases of child abduction abroad without the consent of the other parent, i consider it very important to support the accession of eight other non-eu countries to this document. this will only strengthen the use of this international instrument, which has already been signed by more than 90 countries of the world, for the benefit of children. the cases of child abduction are highly complex, emotional, and emotionally demanding for both the children and their drivers. i am therefore strongly in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the accession of these eight countries to the hague convention, also in view of the increasingly close links between the countries of the union and the rest of the world. and i am also pleased that negotiations are already under way for the accession of other states to this convention. it is our duty to support all actions that help the next generation.
commissioner, the convention we're discussing here is to ensure the return of children abducted abroad by one of their parents. but what if it's not the parent who abducted and is holding the child, what if it's the state? i am talking about the case of eva michaláková, a czech citizen, whose children were taken in norway by the barnevernet social welfare office and have been detained for several years, even though the children are czech citizens and their mother has not committed any crime. and this is far from an isolated case, it is probably hundreds of desperate mothers in europe. i can name alexander hasselström from sweden or grazyna leschinskena from lithuania. they are desperate mothers whose children have been taken from them by the state, without the mothers bearing any guilt. i believe that in europe we should respect two fundamental principles: first, the principle of the presumption of innocence if it turns out that the parent did not understand anything, the children should be returned to the family immediately, second, the fact that the children do not belong to the state if the parents cannot take care of the children and the grandmother or aunt is willing to take care of them, they should take priority. therefore, i ask the commissioner to negotiate a convention... (the president cut off the speaker.)
in the last ten years, there has been an increase in cases of children being illegally transferred or abducted by their other parent to another country. in this situation, the parent seeking the return of the child often faces the problem of the recognition of a decision of a court of one state in the state to which the child has been wrongfully removed. i therefore consider the accession of eight more states to the 1980 hague convention to be the right step to help clarify these discrepancies and thus improve the civil law status of the abducted children. my country is often faced with the problem of children being kidnapped to countries of the former soviet union, especially to russia. i am therefore very pleased that russia is a signatory to this convention and i believe that this will strengthen its cooperation with the czech republic and the other eu countries.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, you said that the troika has got the greek case very wrong. the troika merely set the fiscal target for the greek economy; it was up to the greek government to adjust the economic policy. i would like to ask you if you propose that the fiscal target for greece should be substantially relaxed and, if so, who will provide the necessary money for the greek economy to service its debt.
madam president, i think it is clear that on counter-terrorism our public requires decisive engagement by the 28 member states. by decisive i mean now. what i heard from the council and also what we have seen in terms of leaked information by no means meets these expectations. i also believe that we need to be willing to intervene not only politically in crises that are affecting our security but, if need be, also in military terms. i am not sure we are sufficiently aware of the fact that our security is also being affected outside europe. i have a few points. on arms trafficking, many of the killings and terrorist attacks committed in europe used european arms. european arms are being used by islamic state and by the separatists. something is wrong. we need to review the eu rules in this respect. we need to be able to track down and destroy them. we need to monitor where our arms are going. so i would very much welcome concrete proposals and i call on the commission to come forward with them quickly. on border controls, i am happy that we are not hearing too much today about free movement, but it is clear that we need to strengthen our border controls. we also need to focus on the eu nationals who are entering and exiting eu territory. my final remark concerns third countries. we should not overlook the fact that we need to work to strengthen the intelligence of countries in the maghreb, in the north of africa and in the middle east, and we need to work with them. this is something that should not be neglected. finally, just one sentence on greece ... (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not sure if i understood the question, or at least the translation. russian investments in political parties? if the question was whether there are political parties which are financed by russian capital, the answer is that i do have a serious problem with that. with regard to arms trafficking, i would invite the honourable member and anybody else to a seminar in this house on the 3rd of next month that will show concrete examples, with taped recordings, of cases of arms trafficking. i think that is alarming.
blue-card question. – mr iglesias, was it the eu that was running greece before its accession to the euro? was it the european union that was working with concrete figures? is what guy verhofstadt has said not fair? that if you really want to renegotiate some of the basics, is not the first step – as it was with the post-communist countries in the 1990s – to come with a credible reform, with a lot of sacrifices, and then say this is what we need from you, and then you can negotiate? is that not the right approach?
mr president, i would like to express my opinion on the roadmap to monetary union. first of all, the reforms implemented through the roadmap have contributed to the stability of europe, and i guess we can be proud of them. in particular, the changes in banking supervision and regulation and in crisis management are key for the future of europe. in my view, the fiscal crisis management system works better than we have seen from the experience of greece. it has helped many countries to make a turnaround from serious economic crisis to growth. let me remind our greek colleagues that, for the time being, the cost of servicing the greek debt, given the generous support for the credit risk, is lower than for many countries in the european union, including some donor countries. the issue of the cost of servicing the debt is crucial for europe and we should do our best to keep this cost down. sound fiscal management, following the rules and good crisis management are the way forward. the last part of the roadmap concerns fiscal capacity. i am not sure if this is feasible for the time being, as there is significant divergence among those who are supposed to be using this fiscal facility and those who are financing it about how it should work.
in writing. anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures affect approximately 0,25% of all imports into the eu and are often the only way the eu can protect its industries from the damage caused by unfair dumping practices by companies from non-eu countries. anti-dumping and anti-subsidy instruments need to be adjusted to better protect eu trade, provide a stable base for businesses and protect industries. codification of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters could, in my view, be useful.
in writing. i see the common import rules primarily as safeguard measures designed to prevent possible critical situations, for example where certain products are imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions that they cause injury to the union industry. the european union's common commercial policy, backed up by appropriate legislation, is necessary in this case. in the interests of clarity and transparency of union law, i therefore welcome the codification of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 on common rules for imports.
in writing. the common commercial policy is also an important part of the concept of the common market. the common export rules are governed by the principle of free export as a standard, which states that no quantitative restrictions are applied to exports from the european union (eu) to non-eu countries. however, it could be that, as a result of unusual market developments, the eu will need to take safeguard measures to prevent a possible critical situation arising from a shortage of basic products, to allow for the correction of such a situation or to fulfil international commitments taken by the eu or by all eu countries, in particular in the area of trade in basic products. in such a case, it is necessary to codify the common rules.
in writing. the hague convention addresses the problem of transnational child abduction. these are cases where one parent of a mixed marriage abducts a child abroad without the consent of the other parent. states parties to this convention undertake to take into account the environment in which the child has been raised and is not alien to them and to cooperate in the return of the child. it is therefore in the interests of parents and children that as many states as possible accede to this convention and that the abduction of children abroad can be dealt with with as many nationalities as possible. i'm in favor of adding more states if the existing states agree.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles. however, we need to monitor and to follow up how it is implemented.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles. however, we need to monitor and to follow up how it is implemented.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles. however, we need to monitor and to follow up on how it is implemented.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a crucial legal instrument to fight against child abduction. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this report. protecting the rights and interests of children must be one of the priorities of the eu and by supporting the accession of this country to the hague convention we reinforce the legal framework to ensure these key principles. however, we need to monitor and to follow up on how it is implemented.
in writing. i welcome this decision. the consequences of some drivers feeling 'safer' after crossing borders that no longer exist today and opting for more risky driving in contravention of the rules are considerable. it costs lives, health and great material damage. this is an indefensible state of affairs in the union today and i hope that steps will soon be taken to bring this system to life.
in writing. i support the proposed directive as it aims to improve road safety. it is not in principle a question of strengthening the powers of police authorities, whose activities are supervised at national level, but of ensuring equal treatment for all eu citizens. by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road traffic offences, the directive ensures the effective enforcement of sanctions in the event of serious traffic offences (driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, not stopping at a red light) committed by a national of one member state in the territory of another member state. this will strengthen the principle of equal treatment for all offenders, both domestic and foreign. this principle is further reinforced by the provision that persons suspected of having committed a road traffic offence are to be provided with basic information about that offence in the official language of their home state.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the revision of the legal basis of the directive introducing the exchange of information between member states on road offences. the directive on the exchange of cross-border information on road offences will be soon in place throughout the european union. if it is correctly implemented it will help to save hundreds of lives on our roads. under the new rules, fines for speeding, ignoring a red light, drink and drug driving and driving while using a mobile phone will be enforced across the eu. on average, an estimated 15% of detected speed offences are committed by non-resident drivers.
mr president, i am waiting here for the opportunity to speak and explain my vote, because i really want to condemn the torture that has been taking place. i was shocked by how many cases came out after the media discovered them, but of course, also after these people got out of prison, for example. i don't think that cruel methods are part of the democratic rule of law. and i was shocked that often these people were actually imprisoned for years without the right of access to justice, which is a fundamental component of a democratic state of law. on the other hand, i wanted to support the position of my group, both for reasons of loyalty and for reasons of cooperation in the international field, which i believe is essential between europe and the united states. and my resulting vote was a really hard personal decision.
in writing. the european parliament's position on secret detention and extraordinary rendition of persons by the cia has been consistent over time. they stand up for human rights, against kidnapping, illegal, secret detention and torture of reindeer, which very often they are not even sure they are guilty of. after 9/11, the american military, under the guise of the so-called war on terror, decided to put aside the right to liberty, dignity, due process and the presumption of innocence, in order to make guantanamo bay a reality in place of these hard-won rights. a place where no rights apply and prisoners spend years in a legal vacuum from which there is no escape. from a country that admired freedom, it became a country that discovered the practices of the spanish inquisition and taught us the concept of waterboarding. these practices, unworthy of the 21st century, have imported american intelligence services into europe as well. the european parliament has therefore repeatedly requested investigations and information on, among other things, the location of secret prisons on european territory. time is running out and the european parliament is being ignored. for the reasons stated above, i am sincerely disappointed that the joint motion for a resolution did not receive the support that i believe it deserves and was passed by a very narrow margin. we can only hope that our commitment to human rights has not given way to a commercial approach and that the european parliament will not continue to be ignored.
in writing. i'm against torturing people in general. but i do not agree with the unequivocal condemnation of the united states, whose policies are influenced by the current government, but not by a clearly democratic constitution. i voted against because the amendment recognizing the democratic nature of the united states was removed from the resolution.
in writing. i supported the motion because it reflects my hidden feeling of helplessness. the introductory part of the proposed resolution contains references to a number of resolutions, statements and pledges calling for investigations into violations of the rights of a number of specific people, drawing conclusions from torture of people, but also for specific actions such as the closure of guantanamo prison, not to mention the report of the council of europe's commissioner for human rights on the prisoners at the us military base camp bondsteel in kosovo. i remind you that in the published version of the report of the senate committee of the us congress, the states that participated in the illegal cia program are marked with colors. the washington post identified five, including three from the european union: poland, lithuania, and romania. i do not recall anyone ever having presented a report to national parliaments or the european parliament on how such crimes could have been committed and, more importantly, what was done to prevent them from happening again. the draft resolution contains an important message: respect for human rights and the rule of law is a fundamental element of a successful counter-terrorism policy. the first thing we in the west must do if we are to successfully confront the rise of terrorism is to examine our conscience. to look for our own mistakes that caused us to fail to prevent terrorism, or even mistakes that directly or indirectly fueled terrorism.
in writing. — i support parliamentʼs resolution to condemn the central intelligence agency for multiple human rights violations in its treatment of prisoners. the report by the us senate select committee on intelligence provides ample evidence that parties supported by the united states government are guilty of profound human rights violations, including torture and humiliation of prisoners, even though such vile methods are not at all viable ways to combat terrorism. i urge the united states to hold those responsible for these horrible acts accountable as criminals, and to cooperate with eu member states in their own investigation into allegations of secret prisons and other cia activities on their own territories. i additionally call on the commission to adopt an internal strategy to safeguard thoroughly the fundamental rights of every individual so that we may prevent such barbaric acts, even in the name of freedom and security.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i wanted the european parliament to have a resolution on terrorism and the tasks for the eu. if anyone thinks that in the 21st century we will defeat terrorists based on the fact that one country will fight terrorists, they are very much mistaken. terrorists have a very sophisticated system that needs to be fought both in the real world and online and on social media. the departments must cooperate with each other, the institutions and the countries must cooperate with each other. and that, i think, is the task that the european parliament has now started.
in writing. — i am pleased that the european parliament has supported this comprehensive resolution on counter-terrorism, which considers the root causes of radicalisation and terrorism and pushes for the implementation and review of existing eu measures. we need action both at home, across the eu and an external strategy to ensure a holistic approach to fighting terrorism.
although the european parliament is permeated by actors with different national interests and different ideological views, i believe it is important that we can agree on certain issues across the political spectrum. i regard the question of combating terrorism as one of them. however, the joint motion for a resolution did not include the two groups, the greens and the gue/ngl. i find it sad that the demands of the two groups have not been incorporated so that the european parliament has a genuinely common acceptable proposal. the proposal does not emphasize the social factors of the whole problem as i would consider appropriate. for example, an amendment that pointed out that poverty, unemployment, and a lack of prospects for full integration into society can lead to individuals needing destructive behavior that adversely affects society as a whole was not passed. i believe that to have a debate about radicalism without a comprehensive focus on the social problems of society will not lead to the desired goal. focusing on the consequence rather than the cause has fatal consequences in all social issues, and is especially dangerous when it happens in issues that threaten the lives of citizens both in europe and around the world. the proposal thus often focuses on how to obtain information on european citizens and how to monitor them in the most effective way. i believe that approach is wrong and that is why i did not approve the motion for a resolution.
the subject matter of the resolution before us is one of the most pressing security issues of our time. i believe that we must stress as much as possible that the effectiveness of counter-terrorism policy requires a change in the foreign policy of some member states of the european union. it is necessary to assess the consequences of actions such as the bombing of libya or the support of anti-government forces in syria. the joint resolution unfortunately does not reflect the need for a self-critical approach that could help to improve counter-terrorism policy, but also to understand why illegal immigration to europe is increasing. the residual colonial thinking in some metropolises, the non-conceptual aid to developing countries which, for example, helps more the marketing of our agricultural surpluses than the development of agriculture in the receiving states, the uncontrolled export of arms to unstable areas - these are just some of the activities that contribute to the rise of terrorism and the breakdown of states. the concept of the european union's mediterranean partnership, as well as the relationship with the african union, is outdated. it does not reflect the dramatic changes in europe and in the mena countries, the middle east and north africa. but these ideas are completely absent from the motion for a resolution on which we are voting. i could not therefore support its contents and voted against it.
i support this resolution unequivocally in all its points. i strongly and categorically condemn all terrorist attacks, the promotion of terrorism, the celebration of persons involved in it, and the advocacy of extremist violent ideologies, wherever they occur or are advocated in the world. i consider extremist and terrorist groups to be the greatest threat in the world today, which cannot be eliminated 100%, but i am convinced that a comprehensive approach can significantly improve the security of the population. it is necessary to adopt a 'multilingual approach' to combating terrorism, not tackling it at the moment of planned attacks, but addressing the root causes of radicalisation leading to violent extremism in a comprehensive way, for example by strengthening social cohesion and inclusive societies and political and religious tolerance, by preventing social exclusion. the internet and its monitoring will increasingly play an essential role in preventing recruitment, terrorist propaganda and, not least, the illicit arms trade. however, the european union cannot implement any effective strategy without intensive cooperation with other states - not just those where terrorist organisations are concentrated - because terrorism knows no borders and neither can increased eu border controls be a solution in themselves.
in writing. discussions about terrorism often draw hasty conclusions and offer hasty solutions to the consequences, not the causes. i therefore welcome the fact that this resolution stresses the need to focus on combating the roots of terrorism. it is necessary to invest in education, to promote integration, social inclusion, dialogue, mutual tolerance and understanding between different cultures and religions. like freedom of expression, these values are the foundations of european civilization and the european union must not trade them for a closed-door approach and a false promise of security. i therefore welcome the fact that the resolution excludes proposals to suspend the schengen system. i agree that terrorism must be fought at all levels - national, european and global. that is why i supported the final version of the resolution.
i supported the resolution on counter-terrorism measures in question, since it contains, among other things, many measures which propose not only addressing the consequences but also addressing the causes of the situation. but i believe that we must take great care not to take any well-intentioned action that would lower the standard we have worked together to build in the eu. when we mention the possibility of temporarily introducing document checks in the context of schengen cooperation, we should proceed at the internal border consistently with the possibilities provided by the schengen borders code and avoid a situation where checks in the border territory of individual member states (e.g. document checks) are carried out in such a way that their effect is equivalent to the effect of carrying out border checks. in this context, the judgment of the court of justice in joined cases c-188/10 and c-189/10 can be mentioned.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the fight against terrorism. one month after the paris attacks, this text is of high importance. among other points, it calls for a better approach to tackle radicalisation but also to prevent recruitment and departures to join terrorist organisations. the text also stresses the need to fight against financial support to terrorist organisations and trafficking of firearms. this resolution calls on the member states to prevent the movement of terrorist suspects by strengthening external border checks. with this vote, the european parliament also came to agreement on a deadline of the end of 2015 for finalising the european pnr system and urges the council to make faster progress on the data protection package in order that talks on the eu pnr directive and the data protection legislative package can proceed in parallel.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the extension of the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf). the igf is a crucial platform that can continue to advocate for principles such as the openness and accessibility of the internet to all and net neutrality. these are also the principles on which the eu is building its digital single market. the demand for the protection of personal data, intellectual property, copyright and the protection of children in the digital environment from exploitation on the internet (whether through social networks, games, advertising or inappropriate content) is coming to the fore. there are still large gaps in this area. the european union must be actively involved in the solution, as it does not provide adequate protection in this area. internet governance must respect children's rights to protect their identity, to their healthy mental and physical development. it is therefore appropriate that the mandate of the igf be extended by the un general assembly and that the eu continue to promote the principles of openness, net neutrality and security within the igf.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the united nations to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum. the igf has so far successfully brought together stakeholders for discussions, but more should be done to improve this forum. i count on the commission which will be participating on behalf of the european union to work in this direction.
mr president, i would sign every sentence that my predecessor, mr hayes, of my group, has said here. i did not take the view of my group and voted for the text approved by the envi committee. i agree with the committee's call for legislation to introduce mandatory country of origin labelling for meat and processed food. and i don't think that maintaining the principle of voluntariness is the right solution. only a negligible proportion of producers and processors voluntarily provide information on the origin of the ingredients of foodstuffs. consumer confidence in food is thus at a very low level and the mandatory indication of origin could increase it. surveys carried out by the european consumer organisation, confirming the findings of the european commission, show that 70% of eu citizens consider information on the country of origin of food and even 90% of eu citizens consider information on the country of origin of meat to be very important. the adoption of the legislation requested by the envi committee is also supported by czech consumer protection organisations, which is why i am in favour of mandatory labelling, also because i am a member of the agri committee.
mr president, i have long been in favour of labelling products and of indicating their composition. but for each legal standard we must ask whether european consumers need it and what the implications will be. i think it's going to have two impacts, both on the producer and the consumer. in both cases, this will only have the effect of increasing the price of the final product. i therefore supported the position of the european people's party, which supports the labelling of the origin of meat in processed foods only on a voluntary basis. we believe that eu legislation must have limits and that not every meat has to be a library or a store of information.
in writing. — i voted against the resolution on mandatory origin labelling. i note that there are a significant number of reports and analysis which suggest that should mandatory origin labelling be brought in, it would add extra burdens on our smes, while at the same time giving a limited result in terms of added value.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat ingredients in processed foods. firstly, because it is not a legislative proposal at the moment, but merely a call to the european commission to look further into the issue, including an assessment of all the implications for consumers, traders and producers. there should be a public debate on this issue, whatever the outcome. i shall then base my position on a possible legislative proposal on a detailed study of them.
in writing. european consumers have been rightly angered on several occasions in recent years by meat suppliers who have withheld information on the origin of goods in order to increase their profits. i believe it is time that the european consumer is given all the relevant information before buying meat to help him make a truly informed decision. the european union can help in this respect and i think it is right that it should put the interests of consumers ahead of those of suppliers who refuse to treat their customers honestly. consumer organisations have been calling for meat labelling for several years and the reasons why they should not be complied with run counter to the interests of citizens who are not asking for much. they demand the right to information about the food they consume. i do not think that these demands are unreasonable or excessive. i would consider it unwise, on the contrary, to deny the public the right to know the origin of the meat they consume and to hide behind pseudo-arguments that are used by record companies that refuse to tell their customers the whole truth about their products. i therefore feel it is my duty to vote in favour of a proposal which will help consumers to become more market-oriented.
in writing. i'm all for people buying quality products. i do not agree, however, with the central control of the packaging, labels and other indications of products. all these measures simply increase the cost of production and do not respect the fact that some people would rather buy at a lower price than pay more for detailed labeling. people themselves as consumers determine which companies they trust and from which products they buy. if they do not trust companies that do not label meat in a satisfactory way and buy only from companies that label products according to the ideas of consumers, then a natural self-regulation of the market will occur. companies with poor labelling will lose profits, or even lose market share, or have to improve their labelling. but i am strongly in favour of the customer being free to choose whether he wants a lower price or a more detailed marking.
in writing. i did not support the meat labeling resolution in processed foods, even though some of the public are calling for it. i hope the commission will give careful consideration to this. our analysis indicates that there are considerable difficulties in implementing this requirement, that it would lead to considerable problems in practice and, in particular, that it would entail considerable costs. they'd be carried by consumers. it is also clear that no regulation is going to prevent the fraud that has occurred in this area. for similar agreements, a balance of benefits and costs must always be considered. the fact that some members of the public or interest groups support regulation is not a sufficient reason for it to be established. for this reason, i do not think that this regulation is appropriate and that is why i did not support it.
in writing. i am of the opinion that country of origin labelling is a useful and desirable measure for single-component foods such as all types of meat, eggs, milk, fruit or vegetables where traceability of the country of origin is not a problem. i am in favour of introducing general requirements for transparent labelling of the origin of foodstuffs, provided that this has a real impact on consumer awareness and, above all, on the quality of the products that consumers buy. i do not share the view that mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed meat products can in itself be a preventive measure, as was the case with the horse meat scandal. thorough checks by the relevant control authorities of the member states are no substitute for labels. for the reasons stated above, i voted against the european parliament resolution because i do not believe that the proposed measures will lead to an increase in the quality of the products. on the contrary, they will certainly lead to price increases, which i do not consider to be a deliberate 'smart regulation' and consumers certainly do not want it to be. i am, however, in favour of voluntary labelling of origin for processed food, even if it leads to higher prices for some producers, because in this case the consumer will be able to choose for himself, as is already the case for organic foodstuffs.
in writing. i am for effective consumer protection, not unnecessary regulation. i therefore support the country of origin labelling of fresh, chilled and frozen meat, as required by the commission regulation which will come into force in april this year. it can guarantee that the origin of a particular piece of meat is clearly indicated from the producer to the consumer. the european parliament voted today to call for mandatory country of origin labelling of meat ingredients also for processed foods. however, increasing bureaucracy and burdening even the smallest producers will not ensure a higher quality of meat products. for us consumers, quality control and enforcement are more important. the introduction of mandatory labelling of the origin of meat for individual product components, such as sausage in pizza, entails increased costs for producers, which are reflected in the increased price of meat products for the final consumer. moreover, the information obtained is not relevant for the quality of the product. it may be interesting, but it's not necessary for quality assurance. it would only be if we accepted that a different origin of meat automatically implies a different quality. some producers already routinely indicate the country of origin of meat in meat products where consumers so request. that is why i voted for voluntary labelling of processed foods. however, this motion was not passed, and i did not vote for the final form of the resolution.
in writing. i voted against today's vote because i believe that a sufficient level of consumer awareness can be achieved without imposing an obligation to indicate on a product not only the country of origin but also, for example, the city of origin of the raw material used. i consider that, in the context of the possible influence on the final price of the product, it is sufficient to indicate only the country of origin.
in writing. i voted against the ep resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat ingredients in processed foods. the resolution calls, inter alia, for the european commission to submit a report and subsequent legislative proposals making the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory. in practice, this measure would mean that the country of origin and the country where the individual meat components were processed would be indicated on the product. this would disproportionately increase the administrative burden and costs for processed food producers and would make the labelling of products even less clear and the product ultimately more expensive for consumers. these effects would be particularly pronounced in the case of products made from several types of meat (e.g. salami). however much i can imagine that there will be an increase in administrative burden in justified cases, i cannot vote for a proposal where this burden is not offset by a proportionate benefit for consumers. the proposal is in that category. i am therefore in favour of keeping the labelling of the origin of meat in processed products on a voluntary basis, as is the case up to now.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) in 2012-2013. by this vote, i welcome the work accomplished so far and express the wish to strengthen the cooperation between the eu and acp countries. this parliamentary assembly is a unique forum for political talks between the acp and eu partners and can give an important impetus to subjects such as the fight against terrorism, poverty or the promotion of human rights and good governance.
madam president, when we talk about the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, we should also take into account the negative role played in the whole region by the involvement of iran, which is trying to be a regional power in the region, which has infiltrated the state structures in iraq, which has supported sectarian violence in iraq, which has become one of the catalysts for the creation of the so-called islamic state, and furthermore, of course, iran has also allied itself with the assad regime in syria, which is another catalyst for the creation of the islamic state. not to mention iran's connection to hezbollah in lebanon or its recent activities in yemen. i think we also have to have the courage to say that the solution to the situation in this region will be to reduce iran's influence in this region. so that means we can't consider iran as our ally in the fight against the islamic state. we cannot accept any offers to trade its support for concessions on, say, iran's nuclear programme and we should seek above all to reduce iran's influence in iraq. one such example is the fate of the liberty refugee camp, which houses members of the iranian resistance movement, which unfortunately has the status of a terrorist organization by the iraqi government, despite being removed from the list by the european union and the united states. this is where the adjustment is to be negotiated.
madam president, a lot has been said in describing the situation and there is very little i could add as it has been described precisely and eloquently. one word: really very grave. i would like to express my appreciation for the commissioner’s personal efforts and i am thinking also, commissioner, of the efforts of your staff and also the financial package that you have further disclosed. but i am afraid that this is not sufficient. i think that we need to be aware that we need the strong and united commitment of the european union and the member states to be politically engaged in the areas of crisis, and if need be, to be engaged in military terms, wherever it is meaningful, wherever needed and wherever it will lead to a concrete result. i think that this commitment at the moment is insufficient and is missing. the second point i would like to raise, and it has already been described by many previous speakers, is that there are countries in the region which can play a positive political role, but there are also countries which can play a role in financial aid. this is also something where probably we have to be more efficient in exerting the influence that we have. i would even say that maybe the time to seek a donor conference is coming, because the european union is really bearing the main burden at the moment and the member states partly so. so i very much welcome your efforts, commissioner, but i would stress political engagement, wherever needed, military engagement, and once again, influence on the regional powers, on the countries in the region, politically and financially.
madam president, the root of the problems in this area has been the united states' attempt to balance democracy first with arms and then with the activities of the intelligence services. i think that's a fundamental mistake, because democracy cannot be over-decorated in any way. democracy is the result of a long evolution of the rule of law and civil society. and only at the end of this development is democracy established. i think we'll find that it's far more appropriate for the present time to support secular nationalist regimes in this area. secular nationalist regimes that are far more natural partners for us than regimes that are influenced by islamism in one way or another. i think that the eu's position towards the assad regime in syria, which is secular and a guarantor of, i would say, civic values, will also be reassessed, in my opinion.
madam president, i thought we were talking about a humanitarian crisis, not about training to become a democracy. and i don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't condemn the actions of isis, and i think, of course, it would be best if there was a unified allied military action against isis with a mandate from the security council. unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet, and the humanitarian crisis has grown to enormous proportions, and so has isis in the form of a state-run organization. it has resources, both human and military and financial, and i think we should call on all the eu states, but also on our allies, at this moment, to take joint action to stop all these resources, both human and military and financial. we can of course analyse the causes of the rise of the islamic state, but that will not solve the situation that is now present and which the eu member states, but of course, as i say, also europe's allies, should pay due and prompt attention to. and i'm a little bit concerned that because of isis, there seems to be a lot more problems associated with international terrorism. and the regimes that support international terrorism, whether they were in the past or they are now, countries like iran and others. i would like to see some time for these countries too, not in this debate but in some of the others.
the question posed by the blue card. madam colleague, thank you for your speech, i think you have a lot of truth, but i would like to ask. is there any simple recipe for fighting the traffic? can you answer that question?
madam president, first let me respond to the colleagues who have spoken about frontex. in my opinion, frontex is one of the most important agencies, if not the most important. the increasing migratory pressures put the agency in a position where its effective functioning is threatened and thus the security of the european union is also threatened. member states directly facing migration flows from the south are putting constant pressure on the european union, and so more and more tasks are being shifted to frontex. in my opinion, it's the right thing to do. but at the same time, these countries must be prepared to cooperate and help as much as possible. let us therefore consider how we can improve and make more effective, and above all more transparent, frontex's cooperation with individual member states. there is also the question of frontex's capacity, both financial and human, which we must adapt as soon as possible to current needs. i'm making it very clear here that there are two things that can't be spared and won't be spared. the first is to save lives, and the second is to protect the eu's external borders, and thus the safety of european citizens. i would also like to end by mentioning one problem that my speakers have already touched on. we must not forget that frontex is supposed to protect the borders of the whole eu, that is, it is also supposed to protect the eastern borders. and here we have to pay particular attention to the threat of immigration, which is linked to the crisis in ukraine.
commissioner, thank you for your report. i think that the european commission, the european parliament and the member states must join forces on this issue, because the internet knows no borders. you have, commissioner, listed a number of interventions here, including the implementation of the 2011 directive, but what i am missing is a really detailed assessment of how the directive is being implemented. we are not proposing a new regulation or directive here, but we want to ask how the existing directive works, how effective its measures are. and in view of the increase in casualties, it appears that all these legislative and technical measures are not effective. all of these measures simply delayed the arrival of those who would abuse children. and i would like to ask you what your opinion is on really effective support and more education on this issue with regard to parents, children and schools.
in writing. – there is no doubt that modern technology has brought many benefits. the cost of a free and open internet can, however, have hideous consequences, namely facilitating the occurrences of exploitation of and crimes against children. it is vital for us to vigorously peruse from every possible angle all means to protect innocent children from such cruel and deplorable crimes. we cannot afford to waste any time. with every year that passes, the amount of child pornography material and number of websites continue to grow exponentially and contaminate the web. in my country, the czech republic, the amount of child pornography content discovered by police soared from 136 in 2007 to 1047 reported cases in 2011. the nature of the internet, however, means that we cannot tackle this problem on a national level. criminals on the other side of the world can be uploading images that may easily be accessed across borders and jurisdictions. these images do not disappear and continue to re-victimise the children long after the original crime has happened. locally, nationally, and globally, we must protect our children.
i am fundamentally against imprisoning and torturing people for expressing their opinions. i abstained from the vote as it is not a pure statement of the release of the imprisoned blogger badawi, but practically a call for worsening relations with the state of saudi arabia. the resolution equates saudi arabia with the islamic state, which i consider to be an unnecessary provocation. it also calls on eu countries to re-examine their relations with saudi arabia, but to be cautious as they are energy dependent. that seems like two completely opposite ideas.
in writing. allow me to make a few written comments on the final passages of the motion for a resolution under discussion. first of all, i would like to emphasize that saudi arabia, with its official status as a religion, is a radical, you could say fundamentalist religious group. but fundamentalists of all faiths - whether christians, muslims, jews or hindus - represent an intolerant segment of society that has always and everywhere had great problems with democratic rules. fundamentalism originating in saudi arabia, known as wahhabism or, more correctly, salafiism, is a sunni sect that fights all infidels including other branches of islam, not just shiites. i would remind you that the wahhabis have a long history of links with al-qaeda, and that this sect includes abu bakr al-baghdadi, the head of the self-proclaimed islamic state. thus wahhabism becomes one of the great problems of our time. and that's in the muslim world, and that's in liberal democracies. to discuss the respect of human rights in a country where fundamentalist sectarianism is the official religion is almost a waste of time. clear demands must be made both from our saudi partners and from the leadership of the european parliament and the european commission. there can be no expansion of cooperation on any level until there is a greater understanding in this country for other views, for women's equality, for resistance to the education and training of fundamentalist fighters.
mr president, i, and this movement, would like to point out that according to the ruling of the european court of human rights, turkey has violated the rights of relatives and of the missing. and it has not yet paid any compensation that turkey has been ordered to pay by the european court of human rights. i find this turkish action truly scandalous. it is not possible to sign the european convention on human rights voluntarily and to obey the strasbourg judgment and at the same time refuse to recognise the existence of cyprus and not pay the compensation granted to the victims of this injustice. and i think that the european union is paying turkey enough support to be able to pay any compensation directly to these victims if turkey does not respect the european court of human rights. i'm really upset.
in writing. as an economist, i am in favour of as much tax competition as possible and the ability of individual states to determine the amount of taxes. only then can we compete fairly for the companies that come into the country to do business. unfortunately, the european union is moving in the opposite direction and instead of tax competition, it is strengthening a system of selective investment incentives and minimum taxation. i am against any attempt to centralize tax decisions at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation of a special committee on tax rulings. after the revelation of luxembourg tax practices, this vote is an important step to study further the tax practices of all the member states, (not just luxembourg) , and to make concrete proposals to put an end to abuses.
mr president, i also wanted to say that i voted against the islamic state and i think there was probably no member in this parliament who did not support the motion for a resolution that was voted on. in my oral explanation, i would like to call in particular on the eu states and europe's allies to commit to joint, united military action against the islamic state, preferably with a security council mandate. and i'm glad that i had the opportunity to repeat this call here to the member states, because we can kind of reassure each other here about our mutual disapproval of the islamic state, about our condemnation of its practices, but until the european states and their allies around the world find the determination to intervene militarily, i am convinced that the islamic state will not succeed in defeating it.
in writing. — i am deeply concerned about the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria. given the increasing power of isis in the region we are seeing ever more refugees fleeing the region in fear of their lives. we need to offer support to these people and to address the crisis with any available means we have at our disposal.
in writing. the conflict that is currently taking place in iraq and syria, which are occupied by the so-called islamic state (is), is one of the most complex in the world today and full of bad news. isil has been responsible for the deaths of hundreds of civilians, including children, and the forced displacement of hundreds of thousands of civilians. the gue/ngl group proposed amendments to the resolution to help the european parliament to see the problem in its entirety. for example, we wanted to include in the resolution the words of kofi annan, who called the american invasion of iraq a mistake and one of the reasons for the current crisis. we also wanted to remind you that nato is trying to take over the competence that belongs only to the un general assembly and the un security council. i think it is important that the eu understands the complexity of the whole issue so that it can deal with the whole situation more effectively and, if possible, peacefully, without further military intervention in an area already so marked by war and unstable. however, the joint motion for a resolution did not contain these parameters and i therefore decided to abstain. i appreciate the humanitarian aid that the eu is providing to syrian refugees, but i am saddened that we are not able to prevent the 2% of refugees arriving in eu countries via the mediterranean from dying in those waters.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly condemned the human rights abuses and violations committed by the terrorists of islamic state in iraq and syria and the assad regime. there is an urgent need to come up with a strategy to defeat is and to put an end to the humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq. we must support stronger countries hosting refugees, but also work to cut terrorism financing, the supply of weapons and the flow of foreign fighters.
in writing. i supported this joint resolution because the situation in iraq and syria has resulted in one of the worst humanitarian crises ever, resulting, among other things, in a massive influx of migrants into europe. we as the eu must first of all ensure that international humanitarian law is respected and we must not allow human rights to be violated even in such a situation. i believe that only the end of the conflict in these countries can resolve the situation, which unfortunately seems to be on the long track at the moment.
mr president, energy is a subject that is moving europe. it is not only a factor in our competitiveness, but also a crucial attribute of our security. i support efforts to improve coordination of key energy decisions within and between member states, especially in the transmission system. it is also reasonable to seek some coordination of the many different national subsidies for renewable resources. i just hope the commission comes up with a smart idea. a rational approach to the use of domestic energy sources should be fundamental to european energy. i am not in favour of proposals to create a european regulator, which always appear in debates on improving the energy market. there is certainly a legitimate debate on the functioning of the european agency acer to help bring about the common energy market. at the same time, however, the right of member states to choose their own energy mix must not be undermined.
commissioner, it is a fact that, given what a strategy paper is supposed to be about within the eu, according to the latest version available, this would require more concrete steps and less forceful statements. the document is certainly positive that you want to focus on energy efficiency and savings in the energy union. after all, you yourself said at the envi meeting that the cleanest energy is the one we don't use. one of the very interesting ways is smart metering. however, the implementation of smart metering is very expensive and requires a large investment from both consumers and energy companies. i would therefore like to ask you very specifically: do you have any idea of the financial resources that the european commission could provide to support and implement this objective in the coming years? especially when you also state in the document that you want to invest 200 billion euros per year for a decade in the completion of all transit networks. you also fail to mention the real and substantiated source of this money. we're talking about a lot of money, and the first thing we need to know is if we have the money. what i have looked for in the document, almost in vain, is what you yourself mentioned in our committee 14 days ago, and it is a huge problem facing the citizens of the eu. it's about energy prices. you yourself said that the energy union must also include a new concept of the energy market, a new pricing structure, so that prices are more affordable. i'm very disappointed, therefore, by some of the rather vague lines about how you intend to ensure this. and to some extent, to get rid of the responsibility, this problem is actually left entirely to national and regional governments without any eu involvement. you know very well that tens of thousands of people in the eu today no longer have the energy bills to pay for their basic needs.
i consider the debate on the eu's energy strategy to be very important, as energy security is crucial for the future of the eu. however, this debate must be comprehensive and cannot be focused solely on gas, as is often the case. i also believe that the discussion at eu level is not sufficiently focused on the specificities of individual member states and their current energy portfolios.
mr president, it is difficult to talk about all the aspects of the report in one minute and it is also difficult to talk to an empty chair. i don't want to question that the political factions somehow knew about this event that mr draghi would not be there, but i don't think that adds to the dignity of this meeting. however, i would just like to comment on the deflationary developments which are also mentioned in this report. it is a risk that the ecb has also taken into account when it took measures to pump a rather huge amount of money into the economy, and this deflationary spiral is undoubtedly a huge risk that threatens the economy. because the worst case scenario is that when prices fall because everyone expects them to keep falling, people put off investing and buying. now, i don't mean that all deflation is bad, but the one that's kind of on the agenda right now is really scary. in this respect, i would like to support the ecb's actions and express my support for the period ahead.
mr president, a question: where is the high representative tonight? what more is it going to take for mrs mogherini to raise her voice against the human rights violations in venezuela? in december parliament adopted a clear position on the persecution of the democratic opposition. i am frankly surprised by the lack of response from the high representative. a year ago, leopoldo lopez was arrested. since then we have witnessed more arrests and more abuses of politicians and students. this friday they violently imprisoned mayor ledezma. venezuelans are demonstrating to say they can't take it anymore. the demands of the people have fallen on deaf ears by a government that does everything possible to hide its failures. we can't waste any more time. i ask the council again to start considering specific sanctions against officials of the maduro government. we must show that we stand with the venezuelan people in their struggle for a democratic future. it is essential for the european union to adopt a common and strong position. we have to act now and immediately. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – mr president, with pleasure; as you said, there was no question. but i think that we have been discussing this issue for a while in this parliament. i personally sent written questions to the high representative, and so far i have not seen any public press release from her part on the issue of venezuela. but i am looking forward to our next debate. perhaps she will find time to come and discuss this issue with us.
colleagues, i'm a little sorry that part of the discussion is going head-to-head. i think we should all be working towards a common goal, and that is to achieve the principle of equality between women and men. i would like to stick to the european commission's 2013 monitoring, which gives clear data that the gender pay gap has still only been reduced by a minimum of 1%, that the large employment gap remains at around 5%. progress in increasing the share of women in political office is also still lacking, with only 27% of women in parliaments and governments participating in decision-making on matters that affect everyone, including women. there's been no improvement in the pension gap, 39 percent, which is an alarming number, and i think it clearly shows how women are in socioeconomic position. i mention these figures because we must be making changes in these areas, which are also the european union's competence. i hope that society, and therefore the european parliament, will recognise the irreplaceable role of women in their motherhood and that women will be supported in fulfilling this mission. not to be penalized for it. the report contains recommendations on abortion rights that i find unacceptable. even today, much of the debate here is centred on this point, which i do not think belongs in the resolution. i'm afraid we're going to have to take this opportunity today to talk about what really leads to the advancement of women. it is about recognising their responsibilities and creating better conditions for reconciling their parental and professional roles.
the single market cannot function without a sound competition policy and effective enforcement of its rules. i consider the protection of consumers' interests, the principle of non-discrimination and equal access to goods and services to be fundamental principles from the point of view of consumers. it is not possible for consumers to be excluded from the most favourable offers or even from a certain type of goods when buying goods or services within the single market. such practices are, in my view, incompatible with the proper functioning of the internal market, distort competition and are harmful to consumers and honest traders. i am therefore pleased that the report calls on the commission to continue to focus on the practices of international car rental companies that charge consumers different prices and contract terms based on their residence or place of residence. i firmly believe that the commission will also take the principle of non-discrimination into account in the forthcoming strategy for the creation of a digital market.
commissioner, we are working together on this, i am working with your dg, as you know, and you inherited the problem. it's not your problem, you didn't even create it. i appreciate the process in general and the fact that your director of the g.d., mr. miko, has created a task force to deal with this matter as you inherited it. all my speakers here have cited the march 5th study of the endocrine society, so i don't have to do it again. we know what it costs us, we know what endocrine disruptors do. physiologist, doctors don't have to explain anything, it would be useless. the point is this: the commission, not you personally, but the commission as such has breached its obligations and is now being sued by sweden, and that suit has indeed been joined by both parliament and the council. it's a failure, a failure of the commission, a failure of one man, secretary general catherine day, who commissioned the study and thereby caused the delay of legislation. the cui bono is very easy to find in the january 16 submission from the united states, which states: 'it is important that the commission's approach to endocrine disruptors does not foreclose u.s. eu cooperation to increase transatlantic and global compatibility in the regulation of endocrine disruptors'. so we know why, we know corporations don't like it. commissioner, if the commission is on the side of the citizens in this fight, we will support you; if not, we will fight with you.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. member, thank you for your introduction. i hear from the number one congressman that we should compensate someone, but can we quantify how much and what we should compensate? for example, did you know that despite russian sanctions, farmers in the czech republic had one of the highest profits in history after 1989?
the european union is concerned with all rights. we've heard a few statements here today about various rights, but they don't address the rights that matter. one of those rights is the right to privacy. more and more people find themselves in a situation where they are unable to maintain a marriage for professional or other reasons. we all know it around here, families falling apart. we're also getting into a situation where more and more women are not willing to say who the father of their child is. even though they have that information in many cases. fathers are denied the right to care for their children. it is not only women who are discriminated against in the european union, but also men, and we should not turn a blind eye to this problem. one of the cases is the case of czech jan pulda, who cannot take paternity tests to prove that he is the father of his children. he lost any chance of proving that in the czech courts.
food expenditure accounts for around 14% of household budgets, according to eurostat, and in some eu countries for more than 20%. the food chain affects every consumer on a daily basis. however, its functioning is also important for the economy as a whole. producers, often small and medium-sized enterprises, point to increasing differences between the supply price of food and the final price in shops. the margin is estimated to make food twice as expensive. as early as 2009, a food price monitoring tool was introduced with the aim of increasing market transparency in the food chain. however, the commission still does not have at its disposal statistical data on retail food margins across the union. in addition to tackling unfair trading practices, the commission should focus on analysing indeed all aspects that affect the final price paid by the consumer, including the margin. not only could the end consumer benefit, but the entire food chain could benefit.
ladies and gentlemen, road haulage is certainly very important for the economies of the member states, and it is therefore important that barriers be removed so that the rules do not differ too much from one country to another. i understand this directive which determines the weight of trucks, their length, but i do not understand why the european union directive should deal with such details as the shape of the cab and the size of the glass. i think that even without the european union directives, this would be possible. if we want to make it easier for vehicles to move, we don't have to deal with details like that. on the other hand, things like the german government imposing its rules on drivers from different eu countries, like the german minimum wage, actually makes trucks much more impeded. so let's address what's really important. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i'll wait for the rest of the debate. i understand that a 15 cm increase in length may mean an expansion of the possibilities for truck transport, an increase in operational efficiency, on the other hand, if details such as different automatic systems, weights and cabin sizes are dealt with, this may complicate the situation for many companies. i'm not sure how i'm going to vote on this directive.
ladies and gentlemen, let me thank our rapporteur, jörg leichtfried, for the hard work that has resulted in this compromise. by approving this proposal, we will contribute to the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport, increasing road safety and improving the working environment for drivers. it allows truck manufacturers to progress in their modernisation. we will improve the aerodynamics of vehicles and create better conditions for combined transport. the improved cab shape will provide drivers with more comfort and also make them safer. measures to control the weight of vehicles are very important, as they are related to the effort to limit the exceeding of the maximum permissible weight, which causes faster road wear and increases the risk of road accidents. i also welcome the fact that the oversized vehicles will not be commonly used across europe. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal and thank everyone once again for their work.
mr president, first of all i believe that one of our tasks is to make our european financial sector better, less fragmented, more robust and also more european, not because i believe in europe but because we should make sure that the money will reach the investments that are needed for our future. from this point of view, i believe that the european long—term investment fund (eltif) is a good initiative. together with other pieces like the juncker plan, this can gradually change the picture and help to improve our long—term economic growth. but let me state here that financial regulation is not by far the only obstacle to supporting the long—term investments vital for our future. first of all, there is significant uncertainty concerning the reforms in some states – the reforms that are needed to get the countries on a sustainable path. as the countries have not reached a sustainable path, there is significant uncertainty about the future of economic actions which is undermining the investment. secondly, instability of regulation and insufficient stability of the legal system is another obstacle which goes against people’s willingness to make a long—term investment. last, but not least, the unfinished single market is also an important component, because a functioning single market is vital for a larger multinational project. let me say here that i guess we have passed the first test. we are improving regulation of the financial system but, without dealing with other obstacles, we are still a long way from the end. i hope we will tackle the other issues as effectively as mr lamassoure did with this project.
‒ globalization brings the opportunity to trade in a global market and the opportunity for the customer to obtain the cheapest goods available. due to the different labour costs and production costs, some products are more profitable to produce in other parts of the world than in europe. but this cannot be solved by the state or the eu taking money from one company and giving it to another, which is less able to cope with globalization. the solution is to do the opposite of the current system, to reduce taxes, simplify administration, and remove regulations that are not burdensome for businesses outside europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. zachem was one of the biggest employers in its region and because the eu manufacture of chemicals is decreasing, it left 404 persons unemployed. this fund will allow the creation of incentives for job creation in the region and accompany existing actions undertaken by local companies. i believe it will set the path to durable and long-term employment in kujawsko-pomorskie province.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. aleo solar was a major employer in the prenzlau/brandenburg region and the increased competition with china on the solar modules market led to 657 redundancies. this fund will be used to develop appropriate training courses to reintegrate these workers in the job market. i believe it will set the path to durable and long-term employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. duferco and nlmk were major employers in the hainaut region and because the steel production sector faced serious economic disruption, it led to 708 redundancies. this fund will be used to develop appropriate tools to reintegrate these workers into the job market, including individual job-search assistance, training and promotion of entrepreneurship. i believe it will set the path to durable and long-term employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. arcelormittal was a major employer in the region and because the steel production sector faced serious economic disruption, this led to 1 285 redundancies. this fund will be used to develop appropriate tools to reintegrate these workers in the job market, including individual job-search assistance, training and promotion of entrepreneurship. i believe it will set the path to durable and long-term employment in the walloon region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. caterpillar belgium s.a. was a major employer in the region and because the steel and metal production sector faced serious economic disruption, it led to 1 030 redundancies. this fund will be used to develop appropriate tools to reintegrate these workers into the job market, including individual job-search assistance, training and promotion of entrepreneurship. i believe it will set the path to durable and long-term employment in the charleroi region.
in writing. i consider it a positive move to allow hauliers to operate trucks with an aerodynamic extension that reduces fuel consumption. but i am concerned about the union's attempt to determine the size of windows and so on. i cannot support further standardisation at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states and that is why i voted against.
‒ i fully support and welcome the european parliament's decision on the maximum size for national and international traffic and the maximum weight for international traffic, in which the european parliament put forward a notional 'stop' of the proposal to adapt the pan-european road infrastructure to the needs of oversized trucks (in the accompanying proposal up to 25 m long and weighing up to 60 tonnes). the directive adopted by the european parliament goes much further than the original proposal of the european commission and i am pleased that parliament has found agreement with the council, i.e. that the text adopted today will no longer be amended. trucks account for around 26% of co2 emissions on the road and are the slowest in making progress in terms of clean transport. the directive adopted today not only limits the maximum dimensions and weight of lorries, but also encourages their combination with more environmentally friendly modes of transport, in particular rail and shipping. last but not least, i am pleased that the social democrats have succeeded in pushing through the requirements for safer driver's cabs with better aerodynamics and greater visibility, even though the latter requirements will not come into force until after 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive because the new directive will lead to an improvement in road safety. the new measures are also intended to significantly improve the aerodynamic characteristics of vehicles, deliver fuel savings for a typical long-haul truck and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. truck manufacturers will be able to introduce alternative propulsion systems without having to reduce the transport capacity of vehicles. the design of new aerodynamic parts for trucks will provide manufacturers with opportunities to develop new models, which should support job creation and economic growth. furthermore, the rules for the use of longer vehicles for the transport of containers in combined transport (road, rail and water) have been simplified. as regards the congestion of trucks causing damage to road traffic, the new on-board systems will allow drivers to be informed of the weight of trucks and, together with vehicle weighing stations during driving on main roads, will allow for more rigorous checks in each country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which updates the ʽmaximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the communityʼ. the current rules date back to the 1990s and did not allow enough flexibility in the design of lorries. the updated directive will now make it possible to improve the features of such vehicles to include, for example, aerodynamic cabs and devices. consequently, european trucks will become more efficient, safer and increasingly environmentally efficient.
i would like to wish the commission success with the approved package of longterm investment funds. indeed, they are important precisely because europe needs new, competitively sustainable growth, innovation, and of course it also needs to implement its cohesion policy. it should be said that the economy is always conditioned by its cyclical development, with periods of growth followed by periods of decline. i think these funds can better prepare the european union for the turbulent times we have been through in the last decade. i therefore welcome the approval of these long-term investment funds, with the understanding that it will be only a few years before we can assess how important this moment was for europe, its regions, businesses and citizens. i am pleased that the czech minister for local development, who was here today at my invitation, was able to take part.
‒ politicians should not manage funds or otherwise take over the function of private banks. the solution to the crisis is not to create funds constantly, redistribute money from one person to another, or try to constantly intervene in the economy. on the contrary, the rate of redistribution must be reduced and the money managed by politicians and the institutions they influence must be kept to a minimum.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliamentʼs position on the european long-term investment funds (eltifs). this is a necessary tool to boost the eu real economy and put smes on the path of smart and sustainable growth. improving access to finance for smes and start-ups is one of my priorities and eltifs will provide them with valuable alternative sources of funding. it sets up uniform rules to ensure the coherence and stability of long-term investments in the eu economy. the eltifs allow investments in, for example, infrastructure, transport and sustainable energy projects and will ensure that these investments are safe by spreading assets or imposing limits on the amount investors can borrow. to ensure the long-term funding for firms and projects, investors will only be able to withdraw money at a specified end date, except in certain cases; in return they will be rewarded with a regular income stream.
in writing. i supported this report because i believe that the right investment strategy will help europe achieve the economic growth we have long needed. but we must not only talk about the amount we will invest, but we must focus primarily on the efficiency of the money thus spent.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the further transparency of transaction fees which will ensure that card companies cannot get away with charging exorbitant amounts for processing payments. it is imperative that the savings retailers will make through this regulation be passed onto consumers. i hope and expect, therefore, that this regulation will lead to a reduction in the cost of goods in shops and online.
in writing. on 10 march 2015, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this directly applicable regulation should lead to a duplication of fees charged by banks to merchants for processing card payments across the eu. and it was timely, as interchange fees for card payments are not transparent and vary widely between eu member states. this was to prevent merchants and customers from being robbed by unreasonably high fees that served only to accumulate huge profits for the banks that issued the card. this ceiling, which will apply to both cross-border and domestic payments, should ultimately lead to a reduction in the costs of payment card users and create a level playing field for payments across europe. since both traders and buyers should benefit from the lower charges, i decided to support this regulation in my vote.
in writing. the eu remains convinced that it can eliminate customer costs and force companies to provide something for nothing. the cap on card transaction fees may lead to a reduction in the number of banks offering free account maintenance according to some reports, similar changes in the us were the main reason why banks did just that. in addition, the banking sector will have to introduce a cross-subsidy for payment terminals if it cannot charge a corresponding price for the operation of this element of the payment system. this will make it harder to finance new innovations such as contactless payments. it's because competition is suppressing rather than promoting it. that is why i voted against this motion. the european union would do better to stop burdening small businesses, including small banks, with disproportionate regulation.
in writing. the regulation of interchange fees for card payments is far from certain to achieve its intended purpose of reducing the price of goods or services for end-users. it deals with only part of card payments, which is linked to the complicated system that finances and develops cashless payments. the main chance is that the trend of card usage growth will ensure that the increased use of payment cards compensates for the decrease in the price per transaction and the development of cashless payments will not stop. the main reason for supporting the regulation for me was the situation where, as a result of the disputes that had taken place between the commission and the card companies, an opaque environment was created that would make the regulation transparent. failure to adopt the regulation would preserve the status quo, which would probably be worse. however, rather than direct regulation, i would welcome more transparency of fees, especially in view of the relatively high costs for small businesses to accept payment cards. but regulation is unlikely to improve their situation.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the draft regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions because card payments are becoming more popular among consumers. if traders do not offer them, the reason usually given is the amount of the fees for these transactions. the negotiated ceilings will lead to real cost reductions for cardholders. the adjustment will allow merchants to choose the card providers offering the most favourable terms. there is also a convergence of rules within the eu's internal market, which is also important for online shopping from abroad. all these facts will, i believe, also be of benefit to the end consumer. but of course it will also depend on the approach of the particular traders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which increases transparency on transaction fees. if properly implemented, this regulation will lead to a reduction in the cost of goods in shops and online and that will be to the benefit of eu citizens and companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. in all my speeches, i have called for greater eu competitiveness and the removal of bureaucratic burdens on business. it is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market for electronic payments to remove all direct and indirect obstacles to the acceptance of cards for cross-border transactions. although i supported the delay, i have some reservations about the administrative setting of the bank fees. in my view, this situation should be addressed by competition in the market. i'm afraid the banks are charging these fees on other items.
i did not vote for the final resolution on the report by the member for tarabella on equality between women and men and i want to explain why. i think we have missed the opportunity for the european parliament to send a clear signal about how it sees the promotion of women, the improvement of women's socioeconomic status, the improvement of their representation in political bodies. unfortunately, the european parliament resolution contains recommendations that concern abortion support. abortion is, in effect, part of contraception under that provision. in other words, parliament has intervened in the protection of unborn life, and that is simply an unacceptable breach of principle for me. on the other hand, parliament has also breached the principle of subsidiarity, since these are matters which are reserved for the member states to deal with.
i could not support this report, even though it was supposed to be somewhat progressive. but its progress is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. in my view, there are matters which should remain within the competence of the member states, and sexual and reproductive rights are certainly one of them. as i have said many times, and i will say it again, the european union and its legislation have their limits. please, let's not forget that.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the report on progress on gender equality, despite the fact that the material contained a number of conclusions with which i cannot but agree. i believe that some issues should be clarified by each country individually, and that the solutions should not come from brussels. these include, for example, the introduction of quotas for women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. i therefore consider it more essential that women have sufficient background in childcare so that they do not have to choose between children and a career.
in writing. i voted against the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. in my view, the commission should not speak either to educational programmes (paragraph 41), to the proportion of women in television broadcasting (paragraph 42), or to family relations (paragraph 50). equality does not mean equality. equality before the law must always be respected, but equality cannot be imposed. gender has its differences and quotas, and other forms of regulation do not provide for equality. on the contrary, similar policies lead to discrimination, whereby various minorities are not equal but directly superior.
‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. although the european union has adopted a number of instruments throughout its existence to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women with the clear aim of combating all forms of discrimination based on sex, progress remains insufficient and many inequalities between men and women persist. the report presented by my colleague, mrs tarabella, not only makes a sober assessment of the past, but quite rightly calls on the eu institutions and member states to take gender equality, women's rights and equal opportunities into account in their policy-making, budgetary procedures and in the implementation of eu programmes and activities through proactive measures, in particular in the context of stimulus packages, by carrying out gender impact analysis on a case-by-case basis. i personally agree with this approach, in its contradictory forms, as mentioned in the report itself, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. mr tarabella's 2013 progress report on gender equality in the eu shows that while there is some improvement in this area, progress is too slow. for example, the gender pay gap, which in some eu countries is as high as 30%, is perceived by european citizens themselves as one of the biggest inequalities between men and women. i agree that the european union should take more effective measures to reduce this pay gap on current trends, pay equality would not occur until 2084. women are more at risk of poverty, partly because of the higher share of part-time and insecure work, which also results in lower pensions for women. balancing family and work life remains a challenge. i therefore support not only the report by mrs tarabella but also the call to declare 2016 the european year against violence against women.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this report, i supported those proposals which aimed to promote the principle of subsidiarity in the area of sexual and reproductive health and in the area of sexual education. i believe that these areas are the responsibility of the individual member states, which have the means to regulate them. furthermore, i do not think that these areas need to be discussed on the occasion of the 2013 progress report on gender equality in the european union.
in writing. ‒ while many useful political recommendations are formulated and challenges are identified, these issues should be addressed first of all at member state level. i also deplore some unfortunate wordings which diminish the strength of these important social and political challenges. finally i believe that the quota policy is not the most effective tool to achieve gender balance. for all these reasons i chose to abstain on the final vote on the report.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr tarabella. i personally believe that no such directive will help women. i am against calling on states to integrate gender policy into the challenges of tendering for public contracts. i also oppose the abolition of the principle of subsidiarity of the nation states, not only in these areas.
in writing. - i voted against the entire annual report because i do not agree with parliament calling on the commission to take further action. in particular, i voted against paragraph 75, which calls for tax harmonization, and against the ppe amendment in the same paragraph, which calls for minimum taxes. on the contrary, i welcomed the amendments to paragraph 95 by the gue/ngl group, which criticise isds (investor state dispute settlement) because i support the democratically expressed sovereignty of the member states, and i therefore supported this amendment because it highlights the danger that this sovereignty will be weakened again by isds.
in writing. ‒ in the final vote, i supported the motion for a resolution approving the report on the annual report on eu competition policy, as i found its form satisfactory after the votes on the individual amendments. in my view, the report has been achieved in a balanced way, which i consider to be its greatest asset. where it is possible to highlight the eu's achievements in this area, the report does so, and it is equally as willing to highlight the challenges that the union still faces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which touches upon important topics for the internal market such as fair competition, the digital single market and support for smes. these elements are essential if we want growth and innovation on our continent.
i also wish my colleague well with his investment, but as regards this report, which is about the european central bank's annual report for 2013, i would like to take the opportunity to speak here to support the actions of the european central bank. it has taken a rather bold step in trying to eliminate the huge risks that deflationary developments may actually bring about, which could actually spiral downwards, which would then be very, very difficult for the european union and for its monetary policy. so even though this is a pretty huge amount of money being pumped into the economy, i think that this kind of deflationary threat is so serious that this kind of action by the european central bank deserves the support of everyone who is really serious about the european union.
in writing. - i do not agree with the eu's policy of treating the redistribution of money as the solution to the economic crisis. by taking tax money from one group of citizens and spending it on others, and trusting that politicians will redistribute it properly, governments only deepen the crisis. the only way to prosper is to cut taxes, make the whole system transparent, and allow business to operate without bureaucracy and regulation.
‒ the situation in the euro area has a major impact on the economies of all eu countries and must therefore be closely monitored and evaluated. in particular, the czech republic has expressed its support for adopting the euro in the medium term. the european parliament's report analyses in detail the ecb's actions over the past year, both in the area of fiscal and monetary policy. from a financial perspective, 2013 was not an ideal year, with the euro area continuing to decline or stagnate in all major indicators. unemployment in the euro area rose to 12% (around 25% in some countries), euro area gdp fell by 0.4% and inflation continued to decline, with some countries approaching zero or reversing deflation. this trend is dangerous in terms of the ability of the most indebted countries to comply with debt relief schemes. unfortunately, the ecb's 2013 projections did not anticipate the current combination of stagnating growth and very low inflation, and we need to take a more cautious approach to the current projections of stronger economic growth and higher inflation in 2015 and 2016. the ecb also needs to re-analyze the conditions for access to credit by smes, as the credit enhancement measures put in place by the ecb have not proved successful. on financial stability, i welcome the fact that the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) has become fully operational.
in writing. the euro area recorded negative gdp growth for the second consecutive year in 2013. the ecb's monetary policy has thus focused primarily on reducing stress on euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. the monetary policy instruments that the ecb has used since the start of the crisis have, in my view, been a relief to financial markets in difficulty. in addition to the reduction in key interest rates and the increase in refinancing operations, the ecb has adopted clearly innovative instruments such as targeted longer-term refinancing operations (tltros) and new communication strategies such as future monetary policy signalling. however, it is now essential to create the conditions for a return to growth in investment in the euro area, both in the public and private sectors. the ecb should thus ensure that its policies better reflect the real economy, in particular as regards smes. i therefore join my vote to this report and support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european central bankʼs annual report for 2013. this resolution acknowledges the importance of facilitating smes access to finance as they have high gross job creation rates, and condemns the high borrowing costs smes are facing which slow down the recovery. i think creating the conditions for a rebound in investment is urgent. it calls on the member states to undertake the appropriate reforms to restore a favourable business environment.
i thank you for this report, which i generally regard as very good and the guidelines it sets out are very good. i think they reflect a bit of the discussion we had on the 2015 budget, and i am glad, commissioner, that as a politician you are keeping your word and we are now opening the discussion to the next programming period. i would like this plan and these discussions to be ambitious. to make this discussion even more ambitious than the previous discussions, to look not just at the 2019 or 2016 horizon, for which we have the budget now, but at the 2030 horizon. let us ask ourselves, colleagues, where we want the european union to be in 2030 or 2031. i think that should be the basic guideline not only for this budget but also for any other budget you prepare. i trust you'll find the strength to do so. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. of course i agree with you, and i think, as has already been said in the question, that the money for common defence is very low. i would prefer to see more emphasis on reforms in agricultural policy and other areas, for example, and more focus on investment policy, development and strengthening european know-how or security policy.
transparency and integrity are values that we should honor and are as important a part of a quality life as freedom and democracy. the effective functioning of the european union requires that these values be promoted. the financial interests of the european union are threatened by corruption, money laundering, fraud and other illegal activities. it is important not only to criticise the european commission and the european union, but also to strike a blow at the conscience of the member states. the member states must take responsibility and if they do not, the european commission must be strong enough to stop any money from the european union and not pass it on to them. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answering the question posed by raising the blue card. i do not think that the european union, if it is to function, should not have the means. it is very important that the european union, if it is to be a strong association of states, has its own finances and its own financial policy. i think your question is a good one, but it's being directed in the wrong direction, towards me. i am a federalist and i want a strong europe.
the report before us is full of information about fraud and the misuse of european money. because it's taxpayers' money, it's obviously a very serious matter. i am only concerned that the european commission and probably the majority of the european parliament refuse to see the cause of these problems. the reason is precisely the fatal presumption that money must be redistributed in this way through the european union. why can't the money stay in the hands of the state to pay for the roads? why can't they stay in the council's coffers and pay for the sidewalks? why can't they stay in people's pockets so that people can decide for themselves how to invest in their hotels and so on? that's why i say, let's cut the funding and that'll cut the corruption.
at the moment, in my view, further enlargement of the union is not realistic. however, the countries with which we are negotiating possible accession should be given a clear signal that the possibility still exists. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. of the group of countries seeking to join the european union, montenegro is, in my opinion, the most active in the negotiations. according to available and comparable criteria, at least. it is also an exaggeration to say that montenegro even uses the euro as its currency, but without a corresponding agreement with the european union. despite the apparent progress, a number of serious problems remain, notably the implementation of the basic rules of the rule of law, the more effective reduction of corruption or the prevention of the link between the public administration and crime. our common task is to help our montenegrin friends to solve these problems, and thus to open a more realistic chance for eventual entry.
for the gue/ngl group. i would like to stress that serbia is the central economy of the balkans and without the stabilisation of serbia it is not possible to stabilise the balkan countries as a whole. i would also like to stress that this country will need macro-financial assistance because it has the largest number of refugees on its territory in the whole territory, 700 000. also, there's been flooding that's flooded some of the mines, so serbia has to import coal today. i think it is also important to help serbia to build up its renewable energy capacity. there's been a lot of progress in terms of hydroelectric power, but i think there's a lot of reserves and it could be a promising area for neighboring countries. i would also like to emphasise that we should appreciate serbia's progress in judicial reform, in administrative reform and also in the fight against corruption, even though there are some reservations, which were finally mentioned here. i think it's a country that deserves our attention, and it's also important that we help to tap the potential that's there for the entire region.
in writing. i believe that the coordination of economic policies is essential for the eu's economic growth, and i would therefore like to call on the member states to cooperate more closely, and i would like to see this cooperation intensified between the european parliament and the national parliaments. i would also like to call for a review of the mff by the new parliament, thus giving it new political legitimacy. i would like to mention two long-standing problems with the eu budget. one of them is the failure to respect the principle of budgetary accuracy, which applies to the eu budget as it does to all national budgets. if we as the eu want to be an example, we must respect this principle. there is no way that the commitments we have made are not covered by sufficient funds. and the second issue that's troubling the eu is tax evasion. by failing to address this problem in the long term, our budgets are losing significant resources. i would like to express my great confidence in the newly established special committee of the european parliament to deal with unfair tax practices. i believe his work will be very useful.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this regulation on common rules for imports from certain third countries: setting rules for imports, based on uniform principles across the eu, and setting simple and identical formalities to be carried out by importers will boost trade with third countries. i support the provision on surveillance and safeguard measures adopted by the commission: the text provides the commission with the necessary tools to investigate and ensure eu interests are not endangered, while avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens on importers.
in writing. on 11 march 2015, the european parliament debated the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. i abstained from voting on this codification for several reasons. first of all, the positive developments and reforms that montenegro has already undertaken on its way to deeper european integration should be commended. in my opinion, montenegro is on a very good path to becoming a full member of the eu in the near future. on the other hand, the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro itself contains a number of problematic provisions with which i cannot identify. among them, the first is the call and support for montenegro's integration into nato. as i have said on several occasions, i insist that the eu has no right to dictate to anyone to join an international military organisation, which nato is first and foremost. this approach of the european institutions appears in the context of the current events in ukraine as a pathological, rude, very unreasonable and denying the fundamental attribute of the sovereignty of the state to freely choose the method of its own defense. in view of these contradictions, i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ why did i vote against the adoption of the reports on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, when it is in fact a mere legal codification of the current situation? the reason is quite simple, i wanted to express my solidarity and solidarity with my colleagues in cyprus. as is well known, even after three decades of attempts at change, the island of cyprus is still divided into two parts, the republic of cyprus and the turkish republic of northern cyprus, which is occupied by turkish troops. in view of this situation and given that both codified versions also deal with the regulation of exports from the occupied territory of cyprus to the eu, i have decided to vote against these reports as an expression of my disagreement with the current political situation on this island, which is essentially an occupied eu member state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the european union joined the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean in 1998 to promote the sustainable development, conservation and rational management of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. the text set a clearer definition of the overall objective of the organisation in terms of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability. the new agreement also includes core elements of the common fisheries policy, notably the fight against illegal fishing.
i, unlike my predecessor, supported this report. i believe that, even in view of the majority adopted, the vote was fully justified, because the report gives a credible picture of the situation in the section of the budget. i would like to mention two other points which i think are quite important, namely the question of support for smes, since they are also mentioned in the report. indeed, it must be stressed that they represent over 90% of all businesses operating in europe and have undoubtedly also been affected by the crisis. this role of enterprises should be linked to the operation of the structural and investment funds in the european union, as they are the main lever of investment expenditure, and this report should therefore be supported if it mentions this link. i'm glad i could be of support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the eu budget for 2016, which present our priorities for future negotiations. the text clearly support job creation, but also companies and entrepreneurship, and this is essential, in my view, to create growth in the eu.
i would like to highlight in this report, which i would like to support, the problem of fraud that is being perpetrated in the area of cohesion policy. it is true that the total number of fraudulent acts detected is somewhat lower in terms of the amount of money involved, but the number of individual cases is increasing. i would therefore like to point out that the czech republic has also seen a fairly significant misuse of european funds at the level of regional operational programmes. this experience of misuse of funds, which was not sufficiently monitored at the regional level, led the czech republic to change the methodology for drawing in this new period, so that regional operational programmes will no longer work, but one national one. i consider it a fitting example of the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ the recent luxleaks case demonstrated the need to tackle tax fraud in the eu more effectively. i voted in favour of the commission annual report for 2013 on the protection of the eu's financial interests and urge the member states to cooperate and coordinate with the commission on the matter. in 2013, 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission, involving about 2.14 billion euros, and i find the growing trend alarming. many policy sectors are affected by fraud, and i call on the commission to establish uniform reporting principles in all member states so as to collect comparable and accurate data.
‒ montenegro is currently the only country in the region to open and provisionally close negotiating chapters with the eu, which i personally welcome, noting that 16 chapters have been opened so far, including chapters 23, 24 and 31, and two chapters (science and research, education and culture) have been provisionally closed. however, the joint motion for a resolution is too critical in my view it blames montenegro for the deep polarization of the domestic political scene and elsewhere it interferes in matters that should be purely in the hands of the state, such as possible nato membership. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that montenegro has certain shortcomings, for example, the fight against corruption seems to me to be essential, but i believe that our task should rather be to help our partners in montenegro. i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i have supported the resolution on the progress report on montenegro today, mainly because i believe that there is no alternative for this country other than membership of the european union. if montenegro is interested in this membership, we need to support it in its efforts by clearly identifying the conditions for accession and clearly assessing what still needs to be fulfilled by montenegro. only reforms sufficiently implemented will allow montenegro to exist effectively in the european union in the future. the same applies to the other countries of the so-called western balkans.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which encourages the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and concrete results. in my point of view, the reforms linked to the rule of law are at the centre of the integration process and the montenegro must continue to work on these aspects.
in writing. ‒ i consider this progress report on montenegro to be positive. i am pleased that the prospect of montenegro's eu membership has contributed to new reforms and overall development in this country. i firmly believe that it will continue in this direction and therefore personally strongly support its future accession to the eu.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been an eu candidate country for nine years and is the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the acquis; and is certainly ready to open accession negotiations with the eu. unfortunately, however, there is still an unresolved dispute with greece over the name. the joint motion for a resolution contains, in my view, a number of positive elements, but the bulk of it again refers to purely internal issues of each country, such as the absence of a constructive and inclusive dialogue between the government and the opposition and the post-election boycott by the opposition, and further calls on all nato members to actively support the country's accession to nato. these are matters i have a different opinion on. but because i am not against eu enlargement and i am certainly not against helping macedonia as our partner, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been an eu candidate country for nine years and is the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the acquis, so i unequivocally support the text of the resolution which, for the fifth time in a row, calls on the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations without further delay, despite the still unclear name of the country. i am also pleased that the european parliament has accepted my recommendation that the eu should become more actively involved in the process of finding an acceptable format for the country name and that the new vice-president of the commission, high representative, should work with the un special representative on these issues in this regard. while many reforms in the country are successfully underway or have already been completed, one cannot turn a blind eye to the worsening relationship between the government and the opposition since last year's elections, the indictment of the opposition leader and the counter-indictment of the prime minister, and the likely manipulation of the media in this regard. independent investigation of all allegations and respect for the presumption of innocence is the basis of the rule of law and must be respected by any country that is serious about eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the council to set a date without further delay for the start of accession negotiations for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. such a decision would help to accelerate the reforms in the country and to strengthen the process of democratisation.
in writing. ‒ although the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is one of the candidate countries whose future accession to the eu is highly controversial, i am of the opinion that we must not leave bilateral disputes at the forefront of this debate. the future of macedonia is in the eu and the eu must open accession negotiations as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome a number of elements in the joint resolution on serbia adopted today, such as the finding that the recently published report of the european court of auditors concluded that ipa funding, together with other forms of support, has helped serbia to implement social and economic reforms. unfortunately, however, there are also passages in the resolution which are unacceptable to me, such as calls for serbia to make greater efforts to align its foreign and security policy with the eu's foreign and security policy, including the policy towards russia, or the expression of regret that serbia did not join the council decisions on the introduction of restrictive measures against russia when it was called upon to do so. however, we must be aware of the traditionally strong economic, social and cultural ties that exist between the two countries. i believe that serbia, as the osce chair in 2015, will support in this capacity all means to intensify efforts to find a peaceful solution to the current conflicts in the osce area of operation; and i'm sure he's playing a positive role in that. as i am not opposed to eu enlargement, of course, but rather believe that serbia should be helped as our partner, i abstained in the final vote on the resolution.
i abstained on the resolution on serbia's progress towards eu integration, as some points seem to me to be highly contentious. first of all, it is the parts concerning kosovo, because security council resolution 1244 is still in force. kosovo's declaration of independence was unilateral and has so far been recognised by only a minority of un member states in the international community. serbia cannot be told what its relationship with a non-eu country, namely the russian federation, should be. the russian federation is a key partner in serbia's foreign trade, especially in the area of raw materials and energy. it is a natural outlet for serbian food products. i also think it is unacceptable to order serbia to reduce its coal investments, especially after water flooded serbian mines and caused significant damage to the serbian energy sector. although serbia has done a lot in the area of small hydropower plants and therefore in renewable energy, it cannot be dictated what its energy mix should be. it should be borne in mind that serbia is the central economy of the balkans and without its stabilisation, the balkans as a whole cannot be stabilised.
in writing. ‒ if i welcome the new serbian government’s commitment to the european integration process, the country must make progress in its systemic and socio-economic reforms, and also as regards its judicial system and the rule of law. this is the reason why by voting for this report i call on serbia to redouble its efforts on the path of european integration.
in writing. ‒ serbia is a country with many problems to tackle and, in my view, is making considerable progress. but the one problem that concerns us most, kosovo, remains unsolved. both sides need to live up to their commitments and close cooperation with the eu can help them do so.
in writing. on 11 march 2015, we voted in the european parliament on the motion for a resolution tabled by the council and the commission on the european integration process in the case of kosovo. first of all, i would like to say that i have never agreed to the international recognition of the republic of kosovo as an independent and sovereign subject of international law relations. i believe that the declaration of independence of kosovo has been shown to be wrong and to be an opening of a pandora's box that should have remained closed forever, and that is how it is perceived by the main actors of the time who were pushing for the recognition of kosovo. in my view, this was also a flagrant violation of the fundamental principles and principles underlying public international law, and this decision by certain states has indirectly resulted in several tragic situations in international relations, particularly in the context of the events in ukraine, scotland and catalonia. by bending to the breaking point the basic rules of public international law, the international community has set a very dangerous precedent for all others, which is now being widely abused. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i had to reject the joint resolution on kosovo and therefore voted against it. i remain convinced that the unilateral declaration of kosovo's independence in 2008 was a flagrant violation of international law and a counterproductive step to the eu's objectives and policy in the western balkans. the situation in kosovo is not yet fully stabilised, with criminal organisations facilitating illegal migration, corruption, organised crime, illicit arms trafficking and a worryingly high unemployment rate of around 30%. relations with serbia are of course very problematic, as the dialogue between the two countries is very slow. in short, there's more than enough trouble in the area. i couldn't support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the new government to set up reforms for the development of the country and develop its integration process. in particular the new government must strengthen the rule of law, reinforce the judicial system and fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. i voted against the annual growth analysis for the european semester because this whole programme is undemocratic and it interferes with the sovereignty of the member states. member states are fully in a position to determine their macroeconomic and budgetary policies themselves, and economic growth in the eu is best supported by abolishing excessive regulation stemming from the acquis communautaire.
in writing. – as much as i wished that i could, i could not support the annual growth survey 2015 report adopted by the european parliament. the focus of such reports should be economic and budgetary policy coordination, in line with the member states' commitments under the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned about the protection of children from harmful content on the internet. it is important that we strengthen protective mechanisms which ensure that children are not sexually exploited through online platforms. i support developing early-warning systems to flag harmful content and believe that it is essential that we do all in our power to ensure that children can safely use the internet.
‒ i abstained today on the joint motion for a resolution on combating the sexual exploitation of children on the internet. it's true that most kids today routinely carry smartphones in their pockets with instant access to the internet. but very few of them are aware of the risks involved. today, the internet can expose children to risks at almost any time through the use of phones, such as pornography, the sharing of violent material, intimidation, bullying, contacting children for sexual abuse, and so forth. more recently, innocent photographs of children taken by cell phones and posted on social networks are being posted on pornographic web sites used by pedophiles. this is a completely unacceptable thing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, and calls for a comprehensive approach to protection, including care, prevention and prosecution of offenders. unfortunately, the resolution included several calls for the adoption of rules that, if implemented, would lead to censorship and suppression of internet freedoms. in protecting one right, the restrictions it imposes on others must be weighed and balanced. in order to avoid the so-called "baby bath", i decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children constitute, in my view, one of the most serious forms of violation of fundamental rights as laid down in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. serious crimes such as the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography clearly require a comprehensive approach involving not only the prosecution of offenders but also, and above all, the protection and prevention of child victims themselves. international cooperation beyond the public sector is needed in this area and i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to set up a coalition for a better and safer internet for children, which also brings together 31 of the largest technology and media companies whose involvement could significantly strengthen our common fight against child abuse online.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is an attempt to respond to a major problem and i welcome the agreement of the majority of members across the club. protecting and ensuring a safe environment for children should be our priority, including the online environment. the eu institutions and member states should work closely together with other designated structures in the world, as mentioned in the resolution, to achieve these objectives. the main role of course lies with the enforcement authorities, whose technical capacities need to be improved and strengthened in this respect. it is necessary to be able to effectively prosecute, for example, the 'cyberrooming' mentioned, which is a very dangerous and unfortunately quite widespread phenomenon. i also agree that it is appropriate to clarify the terminology and to replace the term 'child pornography' when describing or referring to child sexual abuse with the descriptive term 'material relating to child sexual abuse'. in this context, i am very sorry that many member states have not yet transposed directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography into national law. i am proud that this is not the case in the czech republic, which has used the 2014 amendment to the criminal code for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling on member states to make further efforts to investigate online child sexual abuse, prosecute offenders, protect child victims and remove illegal online content. to combat the sexual exploitation of children on the internet, we need a comprehensive approach involving investigation of offences, prosecution of offenders and protection of child victims.
in writing. i not only signed the resolution on child sexual abuse on the internet, but of course i voted for it. i have been working on eu telecommunications connectivity and related issues for some time as rapporteur for the telecommunications part of the connecting europe facility, i advocated the establishment of a safer internet centre, which is closely linked to the resolution. the main motivation for today's vote is to protect children from online attacks by mentally disturbed people, exploitation and abuse.
in writing. ‒ i consider this resolution to be very important. child protection is a topic that i've been working on for a long time, and it's the online abuse of children that has become a common problem lately. i insist that children's rights must be protected online. we need to work together at eu level, but also globally. and that is what this joint resolution calls for.
i never forgot my encounters with boris nemtsov. his murder added a shakespearean touch to these memories. a man who loved life above all else and knew how to live it was murdered. he knew how to enjoy winning, but he also knew how to lose. he was a big, happy kid. he was also a man of his time and a participant in russia's destiny. i don't want to stir up emotions, which are usually more than healthy in this room. but i have to say that the negative reflex that some western politicians and journalists have in responding to all the information from russia is extremely inappropriate in this case. boris nemtsov was an opposition politician who liked russia. he was in opposition not because he wanted to unite the world against russia, but because he had a different view than the kremlin on the way to a good life in russia. his ideas have been marginalized for a variety of reasons. but that doesn't mean that they can't be a successful vision one day, that's political life. i'm deeply convinced that boris nemtsov would not approve if his death was used to spread anti-russian hysteria.
mr president, may i start by saying that i fully agree with elmar brok. mr schaffhauser, who is no longer present, should know that i endorse mr brok’s words and that if he is taking mr brok to court then i would like to sit beside him. that is my first remark. yesterday in this house we had a very impressive guest, mr kasyanov, and i would like to mention a few quotes: ‘large features of russian democracy are gone’; ‘russia is no longer a democracy’; ‘there is no civil war in ukraine because there is no reason for a civil war in ukraine – the russians are not oppressed’; ‘the murder of boris nemtsov was a murder which was demonstrative and with political motivations’. these are the strong and very clear words of someone who is on the domestic political scene, someone who had the courage to come here. for me, there is a clear linkage between what is going on domestically in russia and what is going on beyond russia: they are two sides of the same coin. i would appreciate it, ms mogherini, if we could at some point have a serious debate on the strategy towards russia, showing that we have a clear stance, with our hands in our pockets if they move one step forward. at the same time, we should have positive incentives for russian civil society – for businesses, students and researchers. this is how we need to act, and this should be our strategy in broad terms.
boris nemtsov's name is one of the peaks of the iceberg. the others have their own names: navalny, politkovskaya, nadia savchenko... deep beneath them, in the darkness of putin's autocracy, lie tens of thousands of names and destinies of which we know little. it's not just murder and crime, it's a whole new persecuted russian dissident, a new russian diaspora, endless investigative ties, forceful rape of destinies. glaciers that we can't see. last summer, armenian businessman and philanthropist levon hayrapetian was arrested at sheremetyevo airport. i repeat the name, levon hayrapetian. he was charged with unspecified economic crimes. he almost died in custody for weeks. the lawyers have succeeded in transferring hayrapeetyan to house arrest. it's been going on for six months. levon hayrapeťan told me that he is the majority owner of the weekly sobesednik, which published a crucial interview with the german. in it, 10 days before his death, nemtsov predicted that putin would be responsible for his death. ladies and gentlemen, let's look into the unknown depths of russia's iceberg of injustice.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i will start with the wise words of ms kalniete, who said that we need strategic patience and bold work towards russian society. i would start from here, because i think there is a unifying line in this hemicycle – i always try to look for such lines – and this is the need for our strong, constant commitment to engage with russian society. i think we need to do that when it comes to people—to—people contacts, and we need to do it when it comes to young people in russia. i also had the chance to discuss this yesterday with our russian friend. there is a risk of losing entire parts, major parts, of russian society – especially the young generations – to the idea that europe is not an enemy. europe is a space for cooperation and democracy, for the russian people too. i think this is something we have to build, especially in these difficult times. to those of you who called for an overall strategy towards russia from the european union, let me welcome very much these words. let me welcome very much this plea which some of you have raised in this chamber and which reflects some of the national parliaments’ thinking. i was happy to discuss that with members of the house of lords in london recently. you might be aware of their recent report on the crisis ukraine, but also on relations of the european union with russia. i think there is a need to collectively think on how we engage – as some of you have mentioned – on our positive tools to engage with the russian population. we do not have to be afraid of this discussion, just as boris was not afraid of thinking of difficult things in the difficult conditions he was operating in politically. we also have to ask ourselves the difficult questions and one of these difficult questions today is: how do we effectively, in the best possible way, support dynamics in russian society, or at least prevent them from being completely removed from public debate? i will come back to ask for your support when engaging in this difficult exercise, because we have to be clear. some of you have mentioned very clearly that we have, on the one hand, a strong and sound policy that also includes sanctions. on the other hand, maybe we have to say it more clearly and more boldly: what do we do with the russian people and with russia as a big state that is not only its leadership? this part of our work will need courageous, consistent and maybe thinking a little bit ‘out of the box’ in the coming months. however, we should not necessarily be trapped by the rhetoric that we use – it is not only rhetoric, it is also action and we need that – but we need to complement that with our positive actions towards the russian population. some of you also mentioned very openly the need to keep channels of dialogue open. if we do not do that, it is clear that we will hear more and more about that. i will close with one point that was mentioned by many: the need to increase our strategic communication to counter propaganda. we have started this work. it is obviously not and it will never be about counter—propaganda, because it is not in our dna or in our political understanding. this is not something we can do or will be interested in doing. however, it is a matter of supporting media freedom and freedom of expression. it is also a matter of providing accurate information to large sections of the russian—speaking population in russia and in our own countries. we have started to work on that. we will discuss that too in the european council, in the foreign affairs council in the coming months. this is an area in which the european union has an added value: working to support those who are doing an excellent job when it comes to transparent and full information, and to support a greater explanation of european values and principles in all parts of the european continent.
in writing.– boris nemtsov’s death is a tragedy. as one of the few outspoken and independent voices in russian politics, his murder represents a devastating blow to hopes for democratization in russia any time soon. the russian leadership was afraid of nemtsov, and i fear that his murder will be taken as a sign that no criticism will be tolerated. the climate of hostility towards the political opposition in russia is alarming. it is russia’s duty to thoroughly and independently investigate this murder. i truly hope that the russian authorities will demonstrate respect for the rule of law throughout this process, and through this demonstrate a turn in their hostile attitudes towards the opposition. i truly hope that nemtsov’s tragic death, rather than marking a point of no return, will be a wake—up call to the russian authorities to cease provocative and aggressive state rhetoric against the voices of the opposition.
the great russian humanist and human rights defender sergei kovalev was once nominated for the nobel peace prize. during the first chechen war, when the russian army murdered thousands of civilians in chechnya, kovalyev said: "the violation of human rights cannot be the internal affair of any state". his failure to win the nobel prize signaled the beginning of a gradual increase in the indifference of politicians, governments and society to the defense of human rights in recent times. defending human rights requires a strong inner sense of justice, just like sergei kovalyev had. there is no doubt that the imperative to defend the weak is fading fast. business interests in many eu countries take precedence over human rights. the human rights report we are discussing supports kovalyev's idea. human rights violations cannot be the internal affairs of any state.
last week, a group of asian and european workers were kidnapped in libya by terrorists, most likely from the islamic state. their main fault is that they worked in this country. two of them, an austrian and a czech, were guilty of nothing more than being members of western civilization. today, we are dealing with kidnappings and murders of civilians not only in libya. it's the result of the use of brutal bombing in 2011 that destroyed a brutal regime, but also destroyed the state. instead of effectively helping the libyans to achieve stability, peace and reconstruction, the western powers have used only brute force. the result is chaos, growing social instability and a wave of refugees crossing the sea to the eu. eu citizens who are kidnapped are reaping the consequences for politicians who can think of nothing but breaking, destroying and killing. they lack any ability to bring the country to stability and sustainable development. libya, syria to afghanistan, that's your card. i urge you to stop talking and do something. while we're all talking, people are dying across the sea.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. speaker, do you really think that the arab states can be democratized easily? do you really think that if we europeans tell someone what democracy should look like, they'll just accept it?
i am personally very concerned about the increasing attacks on the jewish population in the eu. in belgium alone, attacks increased by 40% in the past year, and in france, they even doubled. i don't want anyone to be afraid of living in the eu. i don't want jews to leave the eu out of fear. their departure from europe would be a loss for all of us. ladies and gentlemen, an attack on the jews is an attack on ourselves. as is any attack on anyone of the muslim faith. we must do our utmost to ensure the protection and safety of the jews in europe. as the king of jordan said in this room, "islam is the religion of peace". so is christianity, buddhism and other religions. i would therefore like to call on all muslims living in the eu and beyond to do everything possible to ensure that europe and the world live in peace with all its inhabitants. in the first letter of st. john, chapter 14, verse 8, it says: "he that does not love has not come to know god, because god is love". ladies and gentlemen, religion is about love, religion is about living together, religion is about fighting against hate. anyone who says otherwise is not telling the truth.
i am very pleased that the european parliament has discussed this resolution, which summarises the current situation of minorities in the middle east and north africa. we have repeatedly condemned the barbaric acts of terrorist organisations which, in the name of religion, have committed inhuman crimes against innocent people. from the beginning, it was clear that the activities of these terrorist organizations had nothing to do with the religion in whose name they were committing these acts. this is all the more evident as these terrorists destroy the cultural heritage of past generations and thus rob future generations of their identity. that's certainly their intention. these terrorists have only confirmed that they are indeed against the universal values of human civilization as a whole. the protection of minorities must continue to be addressed and, if we have information indicating that minorities, especially religious minorities, are at risk, including in refugee camps, for example, this problem must be addressed and appropriate measures taken on the ground. it is certainly very difficult to ensure security in large-scale refugee camps, but if we have information that indicates certain problems, we must try to respond to them.
author.– mr president, i am glad that we agreed on a common resolution which demonstrates that we are fully aware of the scale of the catastrophe in south sudan. approximately 1.4 million people have been displaced, 500 000 have fled to neighbouring countries, 2 000 children have been recruited as soldiers, and thousands more killed, raped, displaced and orphaned. four million people are at risk of malnutrition and famine. in this respect, i am glad parliament, in this resolution, calls on the international community to convene a new donor conference on south sudan when the necessary conditions are in place. i am in contact with different people working on the ground and i hear how desperate and frustrating the situation is there. everything that could go wrong did go wrong. all the factors are in place to lead to a disaster on a huge scale. i strongly support, therefore, the idea gaining ground of establishing an international contact group in south sudan, bringing together a number of actors involved in the peace process. this would ensure coherence and generate the desirable pressure and momentum.
i would also like to support this resolution. of course, i consider the development of agriculture in tanzania to be key. in any case, the expulsion of the maasai must be condemned and i would also point out that only 10% of the population in tanzania have a specific document proving their ownership of the land. this is of course a problem, because then investors who want to get into the land have a fairly easy situation. i would also like to draw attention to another key point, and that is the issue of education. i think we should support the tanzanian government and encourage it to strengthen the education of its people in agriculture, because according to the latest data published in the journal foreign affairs in february 2015, only 2% of african university graduates have an agricultural education. i think that's one of the reasons. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. it's hard for me to be in a position to order or direct the tanzanian government to impose any sanctions. whether similar sanctions should be introduced at eu level against companies that behave in this way in tanzania, i cannot imagine without knowing the specific problem. i've never thought about this problem like this before.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. the russian authorities should respect their international obligations to uphold human rights and the rule of law. it is crucial to have an independent investigation into the murder of the opposition leader nemtsov to ensure that those responsible for this barbaric act, whether politically motivated or not, should be held to account.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution because, in my view, it is highly manipulative. the findings about the murder of boris nemtsov are put into the context of the often discussed real or hypothetical shortcomings and faults of contemporary russia. this gives the impression that the deliberate murder of an opposition politician is also part of this regime. however, the murder has not yet been investigated and the investigating authorities are working with many versions of the perpetrators' motives. i refuse to participate in the trial of anyone before they've been proven guilty. i consider such an approach morally dubious and politically irresponsible.
in writing. today, 12 march 2015, i voted against the european parliament's joint resolution on the murder of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia. in my opinion, the motion for a resolution inappropriately blends unrelated events and attempts to equate the murder of boris nemtsov with the case of blogger alexei navalny or the murder of writer, journalist and activist anna politkovskaya. these are three completely separate cases and investigations. this simplification, this mystification, this attempt to create artificial conspiracy theories, i've always been a stranger to. moreover, for reasons that i could not understand, the downing of malaysian airlines flight mh17 over eastern ukraine was also included in the proposal, as if this downing had some connection with the political situation in the russian federation or as if it were to prove that russian president vladimir putin was responsible for the murder of boris nemtsov. furthermore, in my opinion, it is absolutely not our place to assess the state of democracy in russia in any way. i therefore decided not to contribute to the general hysteria and growing russophobia in the eu and voted against this resolution, as i continue to see the russian federation as a partner of the eu.
i voted against the resolution on the murder of b. nemtsov. i am convinced that such a document cannot be used to attack a partner country, since the investigation has not yet been completed. it is absolutely pointless to include in this text, for example, the tragic incident of the polish plane crash near smolensk. the whole text is about as if the european parliament were calling on the us congress and the us government to investigate the violent deaths of black americans or the political assassinations of j. f. kennedy, martin luther king or robert kennedy.
in writing. ‒ recent events show that the path russia is taking is not that of a functioning democracy, which is characterised by respect for the opposition, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. this is the reason why i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the russian authorities to stop all pressure, repressive acts and intimidation, both political and judicial, against opposition figures, representatives of civil society and the independent media, to allow them to carry out their activities freely. i also voted in favour of this resolution to condemn the terrible assassination of boris nemtsov.
in writing. ‒ given the fact that the security environment has rapidly deteriorated, especially in europe’s immediate neighbourhood, i am supportive of the key messages delivered in the parliament’s resolution on the high representative’s annual report. on-going violence needs to stop. the eu should play an active role in preserving european values and freedoms, the rule of law and democracy. at the same time, we should keep providing support for our partners in order to encourage development and to avoid open conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this annual report. indeed, europe’s neighbourhood is more unstable than ever and europe is facing conflicts on its direct borders. in this context of international tension, the eu should play an active role in the prevention of conflict and provide support for our partners facing conflicts all over the world.
i shall only comment briefly on my vote which, after much hesitation, finally supported this report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world. i also want to admit that it was a rather difficult vote for me, because i am aware that there were a number of shortcomings in the report, even in the original draft. finally, i was inclined to support it, even though i think it too does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is the role of the member states in their policies that the eu should also respect. i must admit that for the next vote, let us say next year, when the new annual report is presented, my view will probably be even more critical if these principles are not respected and followed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report calling on the eu institutions and member states to put human rights at the heart of the eu’s relations with all third countries. indeed, human rights are a key component of the eu’s external action. in this context of international tension, the eu should play an active role in defending fundamental values such as freedoms, rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the relations between the eu and the league of arab states. in this period of international tension and development of terrorism, the arab states are a key partner for the eu.
in writing. ‒ although the fight against terrorism has been at the forefront of recent debates in europe, it still shows a large number of shortcomings. perhaps we are finally beginning to realise that the eu can't do anything on its own and needs partners to stand with it. and the arab league is one of them. i therefore fully support this resolution and i believe that such declarations of cooperation will increase in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the creation of a management plan for fishing activities for sea bass. it has been demonstrated that sea bass stocks have been on the decline since 2012 and it is time to react to protect this species.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution as it, among other issues, highlights the rights of the child. it specifically urges the united nations to increase pressure on the african authorities to act in the conflict in south sudan, where the human rights of the population are systematically abused. i feel particularly strongly about this sentiment and can only reiterate my previous calls for the complete publication of the african union’s commission of inquiry report on south sudan.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, if not perfect, supports important principles such as respect for fundamental freedoms, rule of law and democracy. these are key elements for the eu and should also be for the international community. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today to condemn the increasingly authoritarian practices of the maduro regime. the resolution takes a hard stance on human rights abuses, particularly those committed against peaceful protesters and an increasing number of political prisoners. it is becoming more and more clear that president maduro intends to silence the opposition and create a climate of social and political confrontation and instability in the run-up to the parliamentary elections this year. with the risks of social chaos growing, it is important that the eu takes a strong and united stance to support democratic opposition and freedom of expression. i regret, however, that the alde group’s amendment that called on the council to consider adequate and proportional measures in the event of a worsening situation, was not supported by the majority of this house. it would have been an important step forward in trying to prevent an escalation of actions on behalf of a desperate regime.
in writing. ‒ the situation in venezuela is consistently worsening and this is the reason why i voted in favour of this resolution. with this text the european parliament sends a strong message to the venezuelan government to cease the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition and it urges an end to media censorship.
in writing. i very much welcome the european commission's new package to strengthen tax transparency in the european union. the package represents a promising step towards bringing fairness and justice to the current opaque tax systems of the member states. it is not acceptable that up to eur 1 billion of potential tax revenue is lost each year through tax fraud and evasion. the fact that the tax burden is not distributed equally and fairly is inexcusable. especially in times of economic downturn and increasing poverty, when there are not enough public resources to cover investments. the council of the european union needs to be pressured, where even a negative position by a member state can block any progress in this regard. the commission's present proposal is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. the automatic exchange of information between member states' tax authorities, which today may choose not to provide the requested information, will help to look for tax loopholes and irregularities. the package as it stands cannot be the final target. we should not accept for a long time a situation where multinationals that entered into a tax treaty more than ten years ago are avoiding enhanced supervision. we must also aim for total transparency by creating a register that will not only serve the tax authorities of the member states and the european commission. the register should be open to a wide range of companies and should include both legal and natural persons.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for its broad support for the commission’s proposal, which we could see in the debates. it is important that we are moving forward with financial assistance to ukraine, given the worsening security and economic situation there. some colleagues raised the question of whether this financial assistance is sufficient, and quite clearly we will need to discuss further steps, further support, further involvement, with ukraine in the coming months and years. it is certainly a step forward. some colleagues also raised the question of the purpose of this macro-financial assistance. it has been outlined very clearly that this assistance can be used only for non-military purposes, but i would like to underline once again the urgency of this decision, in view of ukraine’s immediate financing needs and the need to make this disbursement to ukraine before the summer break. as you know, amendments to the commission proposal could trigger a second reading and significantly delay the adoption process. therefore, on the basis of the valuable work done by the rapporteur and the committee on international trade (inta), i count on your support for this important financial assistance programme to ukraine in these difficult times, and i urge you to vote today in favour of the commission’s proposal without the 12 amendments tabled last week. the president of the commission, mr juncker, is going to kiev next week and hopes to be able to deliver the good news in person. thank you for your attention and, i hope, for your support.
in writing.– today we send a strong message to the people of ukraine and to ukraine’s neighbours that despite these extremely difficult times, the european union will continue to support its partner. since political developments in early 2014, the extreme vulnerability of the ukrainian economy must also be addressed to secure a peaceful and prosperous future for all ukrainians. although ukraine’s troubles remain far from over, i am confident that this assistance will nonetheless make a difference in providing much-needed help to balance the country’s budget.
for the alde group. i am watching with great concern the impact of the german minimum wage law on european employers, and in particular on transport. each country is fully entitled to its own minimum wage law if it so chooses, but it is not possible for the application of such a law to be contrary to eu principles. this is clearly a violation of the fundamental principles of the free market and the free movement of persons and services. unfortunately, the german measure fits into the current trend of growing protectionism within the eu. the danger is that if germany defends the application of the law in this form, a chain reaction in other countries can be expected. in addition to the financial burden, we cannot ignore the huge increase in bureaucracy, which is contrary to the accepted european principle of smart regulation. can we really, in 21st century europe, require companies to fax documentation to cologne or to keep detailed records of their employees in german only? but i think that, in addition to the legal and technical aspects, the german minimum wage is a fundamental political problem for europe, it is a step backwards. instead of further unification, europe is building an invisible barrier between states. it denies the very purpose of the eu and the very purpose of our work. this afternoon i met with representatives of czech transport companies outside the parliament building, who are here, together with carriers from other countries, protesting against the german law. the protesters asked me what information i had, how the situation was developing. they're worried about survival, especially the small carriers. what could i tell them? nothing, commissioner, nothing. i was just... after weeks of questioning and waiting for the authorities to respond, we still have no solution. you know, the worst thing for any entrepreneur is uncertainty, and for me, uncertainty is unacceptable. this legal uncertainty has been going on for three months. so i ask you, commissioner, when will there really be a final, clear assessment? when will you have clear, unambiguous answers for our carriers and employers? please, will you publish the german answer you have had for more than three weeks? are you prepared to initiate a compliance procedure against germany? thank you. thank you.
although the eu has made many progresses in building the single market, the new german minimum wage law goes against it. this is particularly remarkable in a time when we are trying to stimulate the economy by improving the investment environment, and we are building administrative barriers instead of breaking down barriers. i am personally glad that german workers finally have the right to a minimum wage. however, i am concerned that the german government has abused this to gain a competitive advantage and to seriously undermine the free movement of services in the internal market. full implementation of the german government's proposal would lead to the liquidation of the czech road hauliers. in addition to the significant financial burden, the implementation of the act also entails a significant administrative burden, which also does not contribute to the free movement of services in the internal market and, moreover, only applies to foreign carriers. the implementation of this legislation will lead to a deepening of the two-speed europe and is in fact a partial blockage of the labour market. we are calling for a clear statement from the european commission, which should consider whether it will be dragged along by the german government or whether it will really represent the interests of all member states and promote european law and the pillars on which the eu is built, including, for example, minimum social standards for workers across europe or even opening a debate on a pan-european minimum wage.
the debate on the application of the german minimum wage law is not limited to its compatibility with eu law, the legal uncertainties faced by carriers since 1 january this year and the complicated administrative burden. all of this needs to be resolved, and very soon, commissioner. in this respect, i too call for a rapid response to clarify the situation of the carriers in compliance with european law. the context of the debate is, of course, deeper and more long-term. some call it social dumping, others competitiveness based on lower costs, especially wages. in the eu's neighbouring countries, there are huge differences in the existence of the internal market and the free movement of services. the minimum wage in germany is four times higher than in the czech republic and is even twice as high as the czech average wage. the current situation in the transport sector has only shown the full extent of this problem. whatever the european commission decides, this contradiction will not disappear from europe.
i join my colleagues in strongly criticising the german authorities' decision on the minimum wage. if the system applied only to german carriers, it would of course be a german matter. unfortunately, this has a dramatic effect on businessmen in other countries, who are thus either forced to break domestic laws or face heavy sanctions fines from the german authorities. i'm very concerned that, based on the available figures, this could be a disaster for many, especially small businesses. the eu is founded on the fundamental principles of the free movement of people, goods and services between member states. but we see a clear breach of that principle here, and we don't want to see a series of counter-actions and a de facto classic trade war between eu member states. i therefore call on the german government to repeal and amend these measures immediately and on the commission to resolve the matter expeditiously.
the four freedoms that the internal market offers us - the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital - are, in my view, one of the greatest and, without doubt, most visible achievements of european integration. therefore, the national law of any of the member states may not restrict these freedoms. not only would we then face discrimination against other eu nationals, but we could also be the cause of their financial problems, or even their complete bankruptcy. the legislation currently being introduced by germany and seriously considered by other eu countries therefore runs counter to the four freedoms that the eu guarantees its citizens in certain sectors, namely transport. let us therefore seek solutions which do not jeopardise the functioning of the common market and thus do not harm the legitimate interests of businesses in other member states.
madam president, allow me to start by referring to the speech by mr buonann, who is not above making racist and discriminatory remarks against the roma population, and i would like you to take this request to the bureau of the european parliament. to the point. ladies and gentlemen, the roma are europeans like us, like you, mr. buonanno, like me. it's a minority that, although it has 9 million members, is not represented in the european parliament. there are many italians here, but how many roma? these are the very questions that we discriminate against roma people on the basis of being different. to say that all roma steal, that all roma do wrong is the primitivism that right-wing radicals are advocating, and it is this latent racism that we are using to undermine european credibility and the inability to integrate roma. ladies and gentlemen, i was going to talk about something else entirely. i wanted to support and thank the commissioner for really taking up this issue. i wanted to talk about social housing and how things are getting better in europe. the czech republic is often criticized. madam president, i started with a technical remark, and i would like to conclude briefly. i mean, let's not criticize the states that have a problem with the roma issue, and let's try to show examples of good practice, that can help the roma.
the persecution of the roma ethnic group after 1938 also affects the territory of the czech republic. of the more than 6,000 roma in the protectorate of bohemia and moravia, only a few hundred survived. today, there are up to 200,000 roma in the czech republic who identify themselves as belonging to this ethnic group. whatever the exact numbers, the situation of the roma in the czech republic is not improving much. it is reported that up to half of the roma are unemployed and the situation is particularly alarming among the young population, with 60 to 70% of the unemployed aged 15 to 25. the reason, of course, is primarily low education. the czech government is of course responding to this situation. it adopted a strategy of measures for roma integration for 2014-2020, focusing on education, employment and housing. although very slowly, it must be said that the situation is improving, especially in the field of education. this is evidenced by the many activities of our schools and the non-profit sector, as well as by regular monitoring. the czech government's measures to introduce compulsory pre-school education are also aimed at promoting the involvement of children from roma communities. in this context, i would like to highlight a very beautiful film called the way out, which speaks about the current roma community. if we want to do something current, let's give him a place in the european film awards.
i regret to have to remind you again in the european parliament that the rights of children, the rights of the czech michalák siblings, are still not protected and enforced. after more than 3 months of waiting, i received a reply from the norwegian ministry of children, equality and social inclusion to a letter in which i appealed to minister horne against the removal of children by the norwegian authorities. in the letter, the norwegian ministry states that it cannot intervene in the case and invokes the child welfare act. this would not be wrong if the authorities were really directing their actions to the welfare of the child and also to the preservation of family ties. unfortunately, it's the opposite process. the actions of the norwegian authorities are incomprehensible to me, because in a case where the law gives many other options for adjustment, the authorities choose the worst for the children, i.e. taking the children and putting them in foster care, to complete strangers. in this regard, i appreciate the activity of the ministry of foreign affairs of the czech republic, which is trying to help the family and bring about a redress. as this is not an isolated case of abuse against citizens of eu member states, i wrote to the eu high representative asking her to advocate for the promotion of children's rights. i'm waiting for her answer.
many of you who know the history of the czech republic will not be surprised to learn that we are a nation that is very cautious when it comes to the presence, even if short-term, of foreign troops on our territory or their movement. we hoped that our so-called nato allies would understand the historic wounds to the soul of the czech nation and respect them. the us should remember the strong resistance of the czech public to the possibility of building an american radar on czech territory. this resistance has now been partially meted out by an american convoy of 120 vehicles and 520 troops, which will be passing through the czech republic in the coming days. i would like to inform the european institutions that some citizens and public officials do not believe that such demonstrations of military power are calming an already tense atmosphere. i hope that the hot heads who do not participate in creating a peaceful atmosphere and disturb the peaceful silence with demonstrative troop movements will soon calm down. our goal should be to resolve the crisis diplomatically, not escalate it. the eu should not allow two great powers to show off the size of their armies and escalate tensions in eastern europe. we don't want to see any demonstrations of foreign power and military might, we demand that the armies stay in their states.
yesterday, the subcommittee on defense and security (sede) discussed the militarization of crimea and the security situation one year after the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. refat chubarov, chairman of the mejlis of crimean tatars, also spoke in the discussion. he stressed that the mere fulfilment by russia of the minsk agreements cannot be a reason to suspend sanctions against the russian federation. we must not lose sight, ladies and gentlemen, that the territorial seizure of crimea, which is part of the sovereign state of ukraine, is a serious violation of international law. i spoke at yesterday's debate and informed the sede subcommittee that in the next few days a convoy of the us army will be passing through my country, the czech republic, on its way from the baltic to germany. i consider this demonstration of military readiness to defend as most necessary. that is why i proposed at sede that the international community demonstrate its readiness to defend also in the territory of ukraine and in the waters of the black sea as a further step to put pressure on russia after the application of sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. the broadcasting sector in the region of attica faced 928 redundancies in 16 different enterprises. it is the first time the egf has been mobilised in support of the programming and broadcasting sector. the region of attica is the region with the largest number of unemployed people in greece and it is of utmost importance to co-fund the coordinated package of personalised services for the workers. this fund will be used to develop appropriate training to reintegrate these workers into the job market, and in certain cases will support the movement of people who find another job somewhere else in greece. most of the funding will be used to support business start-ups. i believe it will mark a path to durable and long-term employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. the publishing sector in the region of attica suffered from the economic crisis and the decrease in the available household income, and 46 enterprises faced a total of 705 redundancies. it is the second time the egf has supported the publishing sector. the region of attica is the region with the largest number of unemployed people in greece and it is of utmost importance to co-fund the coordinated package of personalised services for the workers. this funding will be used to develop appropriate training to reintegrate these workers into the job market, and in certain cases will support the movement of people who find another job somewhere else in greece. part of the funding will be granted to 80 selected workers who will set up their own businesses. i believe it will mark a path to durable and long-term employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region. the shift in aircraft component production practices encouraged lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers in ireland to relocate their activities to the philippines and led to 424 redundancies in southern and eastern ireland. this case did not match all the eligibility criteria of the egf regulation but fits the exceptional circumstances provision as the redundancies have had a serious impact on employment in the region, with unemployment reaching 23%. this fund will be used to develop appropriate tools to reintegrate these workers, as well as 200 young people not in employment, education or training, into the job market. the tools include individual job search assistance, training and promotion of entrepreneurship. i believe it will mark a path to durable and long-term employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that approves eur 1.8 billion worth of financial assistance to the ukraine. this is an important continuation of the support that europe has offered ukraine during these difficult times, and i hope that this loan will further help to stabilise ukraine's economy.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing crisis in ukraine has left the country in serious financial difficulties. the european union should be doing everything it can to help alleviate this and to assist the people of ukraine to rebuild their lives. i support the granting of macro-financial assistance to ukraine for this purpose and encourage the eu to continue to push for a resolution to the crisis.
although the fighting with the rebel forces seems to be weakening, there is still no reason to rejoice. ukraine's economy is in a very precarious situation, but it must be remembered that this is the result of previous policies that favored corruption and oligarchs. the international trade committee recognises that ukraine is not a poor country and that it has been put in this situation, inter alia, due to delayed structural reforms and mismanagement. the eu has little guarantee that the money will actually go where it will help the ukrainian people. because it certainly doesn't need the oligarchs to get richer and therefore more powerful. we are concerned about the volatile situation in kiev and are not sure whether the current wave of arrests is a manifestation of the rise of democratic values or a demonstration of the struggle between the various groups of oligarchs within ukrainian society. in addition, ukraine is not doing much to stabilise the situation in the east of its country. it often refuses humanitarian aid and sends very little of its own resources to the region, which i consider unacceptable. the people in ukraine who are most affected by the current situation are the people that the government so often and so happily forgets, and that is why i am not sure that macro-financial assistance to ukraine will help the ukrainian people and i am voting against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have always supported macro-financial assistance for the eastern partnership countries. even where i had serious doubts, like in georgia. a very precise distinction must be made between citizens and elites, who often act against the interests of citizens. in the case of macro-financial assistance to ukraine, i voted against because i do not accept the rationale of working on the hypothesis of russian aggression in eastern ukraine. the ukrainian coup was not caused by russian interference, but by the irresponsibility and theft of the ruling circles of ukraine from the very beginning of ukrainian independence. even before the maydan events, ukraine's gdp was 45% compared to 1992 while in neighboring belarus it was 260%. since the maidan, the fall in gdp has accelerated and in the last quarter of 2014 it was already 15.2%. the consequences of the incompetence of the new rulers of ukraine are frightening. the fact that they're being praised by their western sponsors doesn't mean anything, but it's all leading to a social explosion. we have absolutely no certainty what the european funds will be used for. ukraine, for example, is to build the so-called eastern wall, which is to be 1,248 miles long and cost over $537 million. the appropriations allocated to macrofinancial assistance should stabilise the budget and help the economy and the social situation of the population, which is why i could not support this report.
in writing. i supported the proposed €1.8 billion of eu macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the commission proposal envisages aid to ukraine subject to reforms and in line with the conditions of the international monetary fund. ukraine is in conflict, part of its territory is occupied and the country is facing huge economic and social problems. we must therefore support it so that it does not fall to its knees, but can continue to develop and exploit its enormous potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal is to grant an extra eur 1.8 billion in macro-economic aid to ukraine. this is important to show to the ukrainian people that the eu stands united behind their country and supports their government.
in writing. ‒ this report provides a political response to the recent emergence of the luxleaks case. i agree with the holistic approach proposed as regards taxation policy, which i found well balanced. the text identifies three areas of priority: boosting the benefits of the internal market through taxation policy; fighting tax fraud, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax havens; and promoting viable tax coordination for a long-term, growth-oriented economic policy. while taking into account tax developments which took place in the course of 2014, the report calls for further actions to be implemented, like the adoption of a common approach on the fight against fraud and tax evasion, which i agree is urgently needed.
in writing. i supported the report by mrs kailiou, although i have reservations about paragraph 25 on the idea of introducing a uniform minimum rate of corporation tax, which i expressed by abstaining on that point. the lower tax rate is one of the reasons why some countries are attractive to foreign investors. from a general point of view, i consider the opening of a discussion on the harmonisation of non-harmonised taxes to be quite risky, on the other hand it is clear that unrestricted tax competition with regard to this tax leads to a reduction in the revenues of the states from corporations and the need to compensate them with more economically problematic taxes, such as the taxation of labour. however, i am in favour of finding ways to avoid undue tax competition other than by setting a uniform minimum tax rate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which offers a political response to the luxleaks case. fighting against tax fraud and tax evasion should be an absolute priority of the eu and member states
in writing. i appreciate the report very much, and that's why i supported it. we must be open about the fact that eu tax policy has its weaknesses. one of them, which i have been pointing out for some time, is corporate taxation and vat fraud. empirical studies show that a negative public perception of a company's tax policy can damage its overall position. some surveys even confirm that 89% of the largest companies are concerned about how the media reports on what taxes they pay. i therefore seek to ensure that business entities that are transparent about their ownership structure and that pay the state a fair share of their profits to the state receive a certain 'compensation'. their ethical behaviour should be embodied in a concrete competitive advantage a tax transparency brand that could sell to final consumers the fact that the entity is transparent and does not evade tax. we must fight the grey economy, and not just talk about it. i want the european commission to provide definitive and tangible evidence that it is not satisfied with mere blanket statements.
mr president, commissioner, this report is not only important as a technical adjustment to the multiannual financial framework, which is necessary, but it is also an important political message. we need to be aware that the citizens of the european union are watching us and watching how we respond to current threats, for example in the area of internal security. and i am glad, commissioner, that you have kept your word and that you have come to us with this amendment and that you are continuing this trend of communicating with the european parliament, which i personally very much appreciate. i would like to mention in particular two funds whose programmes could not have been continued without this adjustment and which are becoming increasingly important: the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. every day, we deal with the problems of illegal refugees, the large numbers of asylum seekers, the threats of terrorism and isis, and the costs of homeland security and other important projects in history. i would therefore like to see the money we have left over from the structural funds also being channelled into these areas, which i see as a very high priority. there must be sufficient funds for these actions, as mr deprez has mentioned. i therefore believe that this proposed amendment will pass smoothly through both the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the approved multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is the budgetary expression of the political priorities or commitments that the european union has set for the period. it is therefore appropriate to carry over to the following year the commitment appropriations planned for 2014 but not used. this is particularly the case in a situation where non-use was due solely to legislative delay. more than 300 programmes worth eur 21 billion were not adopted due to institutional delays. we need to be proactive and act as soon as possible. the programming of the new structural policy must be started quickly. we must not lose any funds that could be put to good use to stimulate much-needed growth and employment. even if the move is necessary, we shouldn't see this so-called instant solution as final. the multiannual financial framework should be reviewed and the council's position changed, in particular as regards the approach to payments. while there is a shift in appropriations to commitments, there is a shift away from payment appropriations, which are increasingly overdue. ignoring the problem of unpaid invoices, to which the €21 billion mentioned above will later be added, is a road to hell. unfortunately, the numbers printed on paper do not lead to inclusion of disadvantaged people or convergence of regions, it is the actual payments that can support viable projects.
in writing. the proposed transfer of cohesion policy commitments from 2014 to 2015 aims to remedy the situation where delays in the adoption of rules have prevented the timely approval of all intended operational programmes under the planned framework. almost half of the programmes require a revision of the multiannual financial framework in order to avoid the loss of the 2014 allocation. the current situation has resulted in delays in the mobilisation of cohesion policy funds in the member states and regions. at the same time, the risk of under-spending cohesion policy funds in the current budgetary period and of non-implementation of projects critical to the union's economic growth and development is increasing. the european structural funds play an indispensable role in the investment policy of the union and of the member states. i therefore consider it extremely important, in accordance with the council procedure, to give my consent to the draft regulation in such a way that all resources are used as quickly and efficiently as possible. i will support him in the vote for the reasons i have just given.
in my hometown comes one of the most impressive books on the armenian tragedy, "forty days" by franz werfel. this tragedy has shown that the ottoman empire was a prison of nations, as it was called, and finally, in our parliament there are people from countries that suffered under the ottoman yoke. people from bulgaria, greece, cyprus and also from romania. and i have to say that all of this is, for me, the hope that the place of reconciliation and redress will ultimately be the european union. and i would like to see both peoples, armenians and turks, come together in the european union. and some hope for that is the recent statement by turkish leader erdogan, who actually expressed regret, remorse and apology for what happened in 1915, a hundred years ago. i believe it is also a challenge, this reminder of this tragedy, that the christians of the middle east need our help, solidarity and protection.
ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of countries in europe that have not passed a law or a resolution that would call the violence against the armenians between 1915 and 1917 genocide. unfortunately, my country, the czech republic, is one of them. i am pleased that we are adopting a resolution today that calls things by their right names. because he says that the armenian genocide committed by the ottoman empire is genocide. it is a resolution whose spirit is to try to bring the positions of today's turkey and today's armenia closer together. members of national parliaments will be able to rely on the authority of the european parliament. this resolution opens the door to turkey to deal with a century-old tragedy with honor. it opens up the possibility that it is the turks themselves who are looking at their past openly and courageously. just as germany did when, instead of resisting, they accepted the penance of the holocaust. turkey, ladies and gentlemen, is our ally and we are obliged to treat it as such in this resolution. that is to tell him the truth, just as holy father francis did a few days ago.
in writing. remembering historical events is important for us to learn from them for the future. that is why this resolution, which honors the one and a half million innocent armenian victims in the two-year history of the ottoman empire, is very important. we are thus calling attention to the atrocities of the last century and condemning any threat to human rights, especially on such a scale. all victims of all genocides, which are undeniably crimes against humanity, must be internationally recognized. i therefore strongly support the motion for a resolution on the european day of remembrance for the victims of genocide.
commissioner, colleagues, people with disabilities are among the most vulnerable in our society. they face a number of obstacles to integration into the labour market, but they are not insurmountable. it is the institutions and agencies of the european union that should demonstrate that the employment of people with disabilities is not only possible but also beneficial. in most member states, there is a system of different measures and quotas for the employment of disabled people in both the private and public sectors. it is striking that a similar policy of inclusion is lacking in the institutions of the european union. the policy of the european institutions therefore needs to be revised and i am glad that you mentioned some of the options in your speech, commissioner. this year, the un commission will assess the progress made by the european union since ratifying the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. a coherent strategy by the european institutions to improve access to employment for people with disabilities in these institutions would undoubtedly be a positive and important step.
in writing.– generally, i am not in favour of quotas. i believe we should instead focus on removing discriminatory barriers and then let people work their own way in the world. that said, i think this might be one of the examples where quotas could be useful. those accepted to enter the service of the eu institutions are on average less than 1% of those who apply for employment, and for those with a disability the odds are even worse. if we want our laws and institutions to serve all eu citizens, public administrations should reflect all our citizens. they must have an understanding for issues related to persons with disabilities, and if we have persons with disabilities as part of our administration we will be more effective at achieving this policy. the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2011 and consequently the crpd is now binding on the eu institutions and all member states. i hope that both national and eu administrations will continue their efforts to fully implement it in their work. we must reach a day where the principles of equal access and equal opportunities truly apply to all.
mr president, first of all, let me thank the bureau for taking such a keen interest in our debate. if we are talking about pnr data, we are talking about very sensitive data of our citizens, and that is why i am very pleased that they are so interested in it. we are putting a lot of emphasis on this in the current eu pnr negotiations. not only could the mexican decision threaten the fundamental rights of our citizens, but its impact on european airlines could be catastrophic. that is why i am here today to urge the european commission, and in particular you, commissioner, to do everything in your power to open a dialogue with mexico. that the current dialogue is about cooperation and that mexico still considers the introduction of eu pnrs in relation to european countries. because i think it's important that the european pnr and the mexican pnr are basically interlinked and that these systems work together.
mr president, i have a simple question for the commission concerning an application for registration as a protective designation of origin concerning an agricultural product, a traditional cheese called halloumi, or hallim. the application was made by the republic of cyprus. it was made for the entire island, but we all know that there is a part of the island which is beyond the control of the authorities of the republic of cyprus. therefore, it is necessary to introduce a compliance mechanism as otherwise those who live in the part which is beyond the control of the cypriot authorities will not benefit from it and a very substantial number of people are dependent on that particular production. so my question is whether, and how, the commission plans to introduce the compliance mechanism into that application?
ladies and gentlemen, you have decided to support the council's decision to set up an employment committee to monitor the achievement of the high employment objective, to prepare reports and to make recommendations on social policy. do you ever feel a little detached from reality? let me share with you an old dakota indian proverb: "if you find yourself riding a dead horse, get down". right, let's set up a committee to analyze the horse. let's explore how they ride dead horses elsewhere in the world. let's adjust the dead horse standards. let's set up a fund to cheer up dead horses. let's do an information campaign about the proper riding of dead horses. let's make a strategy and a plan of action to revive the horse. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a dead horse. if we want to get ahead, we have to admit the problem and get off.
mr vice-president, i would like to draw attention to the tragedy that took place in hungarian brod and its european dimension. at the end of february this year, a tragedy occurred in a restaurant in uherské brdo, near the czech-slovak border. after a frantic shooter turned the gun on himself, leaving eight dead at the scene. i do not want to deal here with national issues that raise, for example, the intervention of police officers, but i would like to highlight a problem that has a european dimension. the shooter was in possession of a firearm legally according to czech legislation. imagine he went a few miles across the border and shot up a restaurant in slovakia. the possibility of carrying a weapon in the territory of a foreign eu member state is a reality. however, the conditions for obtaining a firearms licence vary widely across the eu. i think that in the light of the tragedy in hungarian brod, it is time for the commission to start preparing eu legislation that will bring the member states together at least in minimum standards, for example in the parameters of medical examination for the possession of firearms. i would like to conclude by expressing my personal condolences to all those who have died.
in writing. ‒ competition in a market that results in lower profits for one firm means lower prices for customers. you can't force more successful companies that employ people to compensate through taxes to less successful companies that have to lay them off. in an environment that's not distorted by subsidies and similar contributions, it's much easier to create new companies that employ these people.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the creation of any committees that tell states how to formulate social or other policies. these decisions are the business of each individual state and its voters.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the creation of any commissions to monitor the employment situation in individual countries. the labor market is a matter for each individual state and its voters. not to mention, no commission can really increase employment.
in writing. the approval of the revision of the mff for the period 2014-2020 is a purely technical matter, but it is necessary for the czech republic, where five operational plans were awaiting approval of amendments. thanks to this revision, there is nothing to prevent projects focusing on the development of employment, infrastructure and services, and thus directly affecting the lives of czech citizens, from being launched.
in writing. ‒ if money was saved in one year by not being used, i will not support spending it the following year. the money saved is to be returned to the member states' budgets or used for the budget for the following year.
in writing. the late adoption of the regulation on cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 meant that it was not possible to approve all operational programmes in time. as a result, it was not possible to commit in 2014 or to carry over to 2015 the appropriations of eur 11 216 187 326 allocated to the structural funds and the cohesion fund, the appropriations of eur 9 446 050 652 allocated to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund and the appropriations of eur 442 319 096 allocated to the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to carrying forward the funds to the next year, as this is a necessary step towards preventing a negative impact on regions and cities and, ultimately, on european citizens. the european structural and investment funds are the most important instrument of the union's investment policy and therefore it is essential that all resources are used in a timely manner and in the most efficient way possible to achieve growth and job creation. the new programming period is already considerably delayed and it is therefore necessary to ensure that there are no further delays or losses.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. the change was necessary to ensure that countries that had not completed the approval process for their operational programmes by the end of 2014 would not lose the funds allocated from the eu budget for that year. the amendment of the mff will thus carry over these so-called unused commitments in the 2014 budget to 2015. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the cypriot authorities have not been misled by the alleged irregularities. at present, five operational programmes are ready for approval in the czech republic. the implementation of this revision, which i consider to be a necessary technical change, will finally enable these programmes to be drawn on. the start of the mobilisation of funds in the czech republic is already delayed. in proportion to this delay, there is a growing risk that cohesion policy funds will not be used up over the whole period 2014-2020 and that projects crucial for the economic growth and development of the czech republic will not be implemented for purely time-related reasons. it was therefore necessary to approve the budgetary revision without undue delay and to avoid politicizing the whole thing, which fortunately did not happen.
mr president, i declare that i have supported the european parliament's resolution which clearly calls for the recognition of the armenian genocide. and i express my desire for reconciliation between the armenians and the turks. the european parliament is neither a historical institution nor a tribunal. it is our duty to take a stand on such momentous events that have implications for our time. i think that the political representatives of the european union countries, which have not yet done so, should do so as well. the european union was founded on the very basis of naming guilt and mutual forgiveness. the french and germans have been the main victims, but so have other countries in the european union, and these days we are commemorating the 70th anniversary of the end of the worst war disaster in our modern history. the cruelty of the occupation on the one hand and the subsequent injustice in the troubled post-war period further deepened the gulf between, for example, the czechs and the germans. we know how much effort was needed to reconcile the czech and german peoples. let us wish both peoples and both countries, turkey and armenia, to find their way to each other.
in writing. ‒ throughout history, there have been many conflicts and injustices between nations and ethnic groups. let us remember the sacrifices made by these unfortunate events. but i don't think it's in anyone's interest to pick and choose some of these conflicts at the official level and vote on them. let's focus on a peaceful future, not a conflict-ridden past.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the text of a joint resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide in the ottoman empire, which resulted in the deaths of 1.5 million civilians. i believe it is extremely important to remember the past and learn from it so that we do not repeat the same mistakes in the future. i believe that one of the main motives for european integration should be to prevent the recurrence of wars and crimes against humanity, and not only in europe. dialogue and mutual understanding must be the basic pillars of the coexistence of all peoples. i therefore joined in honouring the memory of the innocent victims of all genocides and crimes against humanity and voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. i have unambiguously supported this resolution because i believe it is important that we send a clear message to ankara that the armenian genocide must be recognised. i believe that this report can be the starting point for the process of reconciliation between armenia and turkey, which i consider to be a real necessity. the borders between armenia and turkey have remained closed since the early 1990s. i would consider it a significant gesture on turkey's part to open the crossing just in time for the 100th anniversary of the tragic events that left such deep scars in relations between the two countries. the fact that president erdogan and prime minister davutoglu have expressed their condolences to the families of the victims and acknowledged the atrocities committed against the ottoman armenians, i consider as a positive start to the efforts for a real reconciliation between the turkish and armenian people.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu interventions in nation state matters should be very limited. with reference to the tragic chapter of history that occurred over a century ago between ottoman empire and armenia, i consider the european parliament’s interference both inappropriate and counterproductive. these issues must first be settled at a bilateral level, between the two sovereign nation states. also the european parliament is not entitled to make legal judgments of historical events. the word ‘genocide’ is, however, a legal judgement as it is a definition of crime, according to international law. but the european parliament has no jurisdiction in international law. the european parliament should curb its political activism and act appropriately. therefore i do not support this resolution as a matter of principle.
in writing. ‒ events such as the roma genocide under nazi rule and during the second world war should be remembered. but i think that is a matter for individual politicians and citizens, not for parliament to decide. it should be about how to limit the power of politicians as much as possible and give people as much freedom as possible so that such events never happen again. at the same time, greater freedom and respect for the law and equal access to all people will help the most in the fight against discrimination against roma.
‒ the roma, who number between 10 and 12 million in europe, are the largest european ethnic minority. in its resolution, the european parliament expressed its deep concern at the rise of anti-roma sentiment, which is reflected, inter alia, in anti-roma rhetoric and violent attacks on roma in europe. i am convinced that the elimination of anti-roma sentiment will not happen without effective cooperation between member states on the one hand and roma communities and ngos on the other. i believe that children and their access to housing, healthcare and education should be a priority in the implementation of national roma integration strategies. i very much welcome the fact that the european parliament has called on the member states to officially recognise the genocide and other forms of persecution of the roma that took place during the second world war. i consider this a necessary step towards the full integration of roma into mainstream society.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on the occasion of international roma day, as i consider it important to constantly speak out against any form of discrimination. in particular, i agree with the part of the resolution in which the european parliament 'stresses that discrimination and marginalisation are never the result of the inherent shortcomings of individuals or groups affected by such discrimination and marginalisation, but are mainly caused by the fact that the majority society does not recognise the rights of individuals and does not ensure the structures necessary for each individual to enjoy those rights'.
in writing. by supporting this resolution, i expressed my deep regret for the victims of the roma genocide during the second world war. the european union is founded on diversity, respect for traditions, as well as respect for cultural history and ethnicity. this resolution is very important because it underlines that europe recognises roma as part of european history and culture. we must remember the past so that similar things do not happen in the future. intolerance towards the roma community is growing. but we must fight against this hatred and hostility. i believe that the best way to do this is to focus on positive cases of roma inclusion in eu member states and to involve roma communities in ngo programmes as a strategy for better integration.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue and use my speaking time. today's debate on ecall, the seventh in all, follows the adoption by the council on 2 march this year of a position at first reading on a regulation on type-approval requirements for the deployment of an ecall in-vehicle system using the 112 emergency call line. the regulation is part of a package of initiatives to ensure the roll-out of the 112 ecall service across europe, free of charge to all consumers, regardless of vehicle type, purchase price or country of residence. as early as the beginning of last year, the european parliament and the member states adopted the decision to make ecall mandatory, which implements the pan-european infrastructure necessary for the proper functioning of the ecall emergency system in each member state from october 2017. the text presented here complements this decision and sets out the type-approval requirements for ecall in-vehicle devices. new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles are to be designed from 31 march 2018 to trigger the 112 emergency call automatically or manually in the event of a serious accident. the european parliament has long been one of the main supporters of the introduction of the ecall safety system. in the past, we have repeatedly pointed to the delays in voluntary deployment to date, which were caused by unavailability, high cost and inefficiencies on the way abroad. in july 2012, parliament called on the commission in a resolution to submit a proposal to introduce ecall as a public service. the requested proposal was presented by the commission in june 2013 and four parliamentary committees subsequently began working intensively on it. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs supported the general line of the mandatory introduction of ecall and contributed with several specific provisions to reinforce or clarify the commission proposal. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and colleagues for their cooperation and very valuable and helpful opinions. in february 2014, the european parliament adopted a position at first reading. this post-election position was the mandate for the final negotiations with the member states. the council, like the european parliament, made a number of changes to the original proposal. in the second half of last year, three trilogues and many other working meetings were held, resulting in an agreement between the two institutions in december. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the italian and latvian presidencies for their intensive and very constructive cooperation. the role of the italian presidency in particular has been crucial. i would also like to thank the commission, which also made a significant contribution to the compromise reached. the european parliament succeeded in pushing through the vast majority of the amendments during the negotiations, including an explicit reference to the 112 emergency call line, compatibility with satellite navigation systems, reporting and review, and an incentive for the commission to further intensify its work on value-added services that could bring additional benefits to consumers and enhance the competitiveness of european industry. a big thank you goes to all the members of the negotiating team, the secretariat and the services of the european parliament for their excellent assistance. the resulting text also fully guarantees the right to privacy and data protection, which has been paramount for the european parliament from the outset. the in-depth work of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has contributed to the detailed clarification of the rules on privacy and data protection. a vehicle equipped with an ecall system shall not be traceable in normal operating conditions and shall not be subject to any permanent recording of its position. the system shall remain inactive until the distress call is triggered. the data set sent by ecall to the emergency services will only contain the minimum information required for the proper handling of emergency calls and will only be provided to the emergency services. in addition, the data stored in the system's internal memory shall be automatically and permanently erased. contrary to the european parliament's initial call, the date of entry into force of the regulation has been postponed. the launch of the system requires close cooperation between several actors involved and member states have asked for more time to put the necessary infrastructure in place. i think it is reasonable to meet this requirement so that the system is 100% operational at launch and can be fully trusted by european citizens. in view of the above, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to vote tomorrow in favour of the text without further amendments. the agreement, which was supported by the member states, sets out the priorities of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the opinions of the associated committees, is consistent with the mandate given to me as rapporteur by the vote of the european parliament's plenary in first reading and is in line with previous requests by the european parliament. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to the next debate.
the rapporteur. let me close this debate by thanking all my colleagues for their contributions and for the support they have shown throughout the legislative process, which, as some of you have mentioned, was not short. as i have already said, i was aware from the outset of the criticisms of the system and i am therefore convinced that the european parliament, together with the member states, has succeeded in taking these criticisms into account in the final text. ladies and gentlemen, i conclude by saying that i am convinced that the introduction of ecall across the european union will make a significant contribution to improving the safety of european road users, although i agree that i am certainly not the only one. the european parliament has repeatedly identified reducing the number of deaths and injuries on european roads as one of its priorities, and i believe that tomorrow's vote will contribute to our common objective.
in writing.– the ecall emergency system is clearly a step forward in increasing the safety of citizens. i would like to thank my colleague olga sehnalová for her work. i do, however, believe that citizens should have the choice on whether to participate in the ecall system or not. i agree that measures that directly save lives in an accident should be mandatory. a seat belt, for example, can mean the difference between life and death. the ecall system could help in the aftermath of an accident, but will not prevent it. the ecall would instead increase the chances of paramedics coming to the scene earlier, in the event that no one in the car is able to make a phone call or there is no other witness around to call emergency services. although the ecall system could potentially save lives, it is not a vital component and therefore each citizen must be given the right to decide if the benefits outweigh the cost, which is the sharing of their information.
in writing. much has been said about the negative effects of excessive alcohol consumption on human health or the social effects of addiction. europe suffers from the highest alcohol consumption rate in the world and i too believe that we need an effective strategy in this area. i consider it important to protect young people consistently, both by raising awareness of alcohol consumption and by strictly enforcing the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors, especially on the internet. the responsibility for education should lie with the producers of alcoholic beverages themselves, alongside the member states. attention must continue to be paid to the problem of drunk driving, which is linked to approximately one in four road accidents in the eu. alcohol is one of the top three killers on european roads. the previous discussion was on road safety. measures to reduce the number of alcohol-related road accidents would be another contribution to the reduction in the number of deaths on european roads that we all want.
mr president, i have already said many times that terrorism is a problem that has to be tackled internationally. let me here put the question whether the eu is cooperating enough with other countries. more specifically, i am talking about countries not far from us: israel, jordan, egypt and turkey. of these countries, only the cooperation with turkey can be defined as good. i therefore urge the commission to develop more cooperation with israel, jordan and egypt in the fight against terrorism and human trafficking.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, when i was thinking about how to vote on the final document before me, i was overcome by a feeling of hopelessness and sadness. we all know now that the promotion of first-generation biofuels was a huge mistake, that the european union made a big mistake and overlooked several key factors in the design of the original directive, which has resulted in further damage to the landscape and the environment, reduced food self-sufficiency and rising food prices. as a shadow reporter, i approached the impending change with hope and great expectations, but the opposite has happened. the first alarming sign that something was not quite right was the relentless pressure exerted on us on a daily basis by the european lobby, which was more concerned than the environment with which raw material or fuel would be supported and how and where it would be used. nevertheless, thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur and the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we entered the final negotiations with the council and the commission with a very strong document. but what has emerged in the end is nothing less than a great defeat for the european parliament and, above all, for the environment. we have succumbed to pressure from the council and, above all, from the member states, and have abandoned everything essential that the new regulation was supposed to represent. we've lost the six percent threshold for first-generation biofuels, which was the maximum at the beginning. we failed to secure sufficient support for second and third generation biofuels by accepting that their share would not be binding. the european parliament has simply failed to implement almost anything it originally voted for in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the resulting text is then essentially a slightly improved version of the original 2009 draft. it is safe to say that after almost five years of negotiations, we have achieved nothing of substance. i would therefore like to say that the gue/ngl group does not intend to participate in any way in this charade, which is essentially a preservation of the status quo, which is only very ostentatiously disguised as a huge change. ladies and gentlemen, the plundering of our landscapes will continue, the current producers will continue to profit enormously, and we have been unable to prevent it.
mr president, commissioner, the promotion of conventional biofuels and the 10% quota was a mistake with negative consequences for agriculture. i am glad that the european commission has recognised this and that we now have the chance to correct this at european level. but the 7% limit is still too high and i am sceptical about the willingness to reduce it at national level. unfortunately, i see the reality in my own country where biofuels have become a very interesting business tied to public subsidies. alarmingly, we even have a conflict of interest. the owner of the dominant fuel producer is also a member of the government which decides on the subsidy scheme. i therefore support a 5% to 6% first generation bio-component, because of all the negative experiences with the current directive that have led to this.
i've tabled an amendment to reduce the share of conventional biofuels to 6%. if the rules of procedure allowed it, i would propose the complete repeal of the biofuels directive. our forefathers created a monstrous system that leads to food prices and starvation in the poorest countries of the world. we've created a system where a few oligarchs get rich. for example, in the czech republic, one such oligarch, mr. babiš, first bought politicians to secure sales for his rapeseed oil. then he bought the tv and radio station, bought the biggest newspapers in the country, and finally he bought the voters and became the vice president of the government that's proposing more tax breaks for biofuels. therefore, please support the amendment which would at least reduce the share of traditional biofuels to 6%.
mr president, commissioner, we are voting today on a proposal which does not meet the european parliament's vision of a biofuels policy, nor even the original vision of the european commission. it merely reflects the views of certain member states or of a particular manufacturing sector in those member states. i am not surprised that the representative of the european council has not even come here today. he would have to admit that the european council tends to pass on a certain degree of democratic deficit to the european level. two-thirds of the $17 billion biofuel market is represented by first-generation producers. no wonder their lobbying was well known. the european parliament did not fall for it, but unfortunately the member states did. not all member states have the same ambition for second and third generation biofuels, but we could have done much more. it was enough to listen to the voices of parliaments, the non-profit sector and innovative industry. instead of at least stopping the growth of first-generation biofuels at the current level, we are allowing them to continue to grow with all the negative side effects. instead of encouraging innovation, we'll just have non-binding goals. despite all the reservations, the result is better than the current situation and to vote against the proposal would be to preserve the conditions prevailing in the biofuels market today. we have at least limits on biofuels produced on agricultural land, a ceiling some ceiling for first-generation biofuels and some support for innovation in this sector. but we are sending a very bad signal to the council and the member states if we 'swallow' this unpleasant compromise again.
madam president, i have tabled a motion to reject this directive banning plastic bags in shops. i'm giving you a unique opportunity to let people decide voluntarily, by voting, what they're going to take with them. please don't underestimate the ability of people to make decisions. people recycle when it's rational. i need a paper bag for waste paper, i get a paper bag at the store. when i need a plastic bag for my plastic waste, i use a plastic bag. what do you think will happen if you ban plastic bags? people will take more micro-ten bags, people will have to buy more rolls of plastic waste packaging if they don't get them as bags in the stores. i certainly hope that you, who want to ban plastic bags, never take a plastic bag in the store. because if you take it and you want to forbid others to take it, then you're just hypocrites.
mr president, i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and informing her that i was unable to vote on the amendment tabled because my card was not working either. of course, i couldn't have known that when i signed up for oral explanations. i would like to say in my explanation that i support this system, but i have some concerns about it and i think it is appropriate to share them here. there's been a lot of talk about data retention. as to whether this is indeed a dormant system, i must point out that any system that stores data, even for a period of time, can be abused. modern technology is always advancing, so often we don't even see the threat. and i would therefore caution to a certain extent against introducing a system that does not know the possibility of automatic shutdown. yes, i recognize that communications operations should be subject to certain rules, but data retention is a matter that i believe should be subject to personal decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because it could help to save lives. i also voted for the amendment to have an on-off button, which i regret did not go through in the final text. citizens should have the right to decide if they want to have this additional assurance while driving, at the expense of their privacy.
in writing. ‒ i support the ecall system, which automatically calls 112 in the event of a car accident, and establishes a link to more rapid and efficient help in the event of an emergency. the technological improvement introduced in all new vehicles is an important one. nevertheless i believe consumers should have the right to choose whether or not to activate the system in their own car.
‒ although i believe that ms sehnall's proposal is of very high quality and has my support, i believe that this system deserves a slight adjustment. we live in a world where the distinction between private and public life is blurring, and it's becoming increasingly difficult to maintain your privacy. i therefore decided to give my consent to the amendment which states that: manufacturers shall ensure that ecall users can easily deactivate the ecall in-vehicle system manually. i do not think it is necessary for the ecall system to monitor the movement of our vehicles 24 hours a day and subject us to further surveillance. citizens should have the right to shut down the system if it is in line with their wishes. we should be less dictating and more presenting options. forcing someone to watch without offering an alternative is not very 21st century, and we should think about what kind of relationship we want to have with our citizens. i therefore regret that this amendment was not adopted and we risk being monitored a little more in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have no objection to improving vehicle safety or introducing new features that can help to improve passenger safety. but i do not agree with mandatory and centralised order. it is the customer's right to choose which car to buy and whether to buy one with the ecall system installed.
in writing. i voted for the report on the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle system because i consider the mandatory introduction of ecall to be a step forward. at the same time, many car manufacturers, such as bmw, ford, peugeot/citroen and volvo, are not waiting for the european regulation and are already equipping their cars with ecall or similar technologies. this is evidence of the high level of attention paid to road safety in the eu.
in writing. i consider the introduction of the mandatory installation of ecall in all (newly manufactured) passenger cars to be a positive step and i am glad that the european parliament gave it the green light. from the end of march 2018, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with an ecall system that automatically dials the 112 emergency number in the event of an accident and sends all the necessary data to the central emergency services. this step will, in effect, mean many more lives saved and less property damage. in terms of form, the proposal also fully reflects the requirements relating to the protection of personal data (we have strengthened the data protection clause in the proposal) and to the regulations on road safety, european trademark and certification standards and the regulations on telecommunications networks, electronic and mobile communications. i'm glad the european parliament voted against the european liberals' proposal to allow the device to be turned off manually. this would of course make any investment in ecall pointless.
in writing. i support the introduction of ecall, which can help to mitigate the consequences of road accidents, in particular by informing emergency services in good time of the precise location of the crashed vehicle. when an ecall is triggered following an accident, only the basic minimum data such as vehicle type, fuel type used, time of the accident, exact vehicle position and number of occupants will be sent automatically to the emergency services. i believe that this system, which will be provided free of charge to all citizens, regardless of the type or purchase price of the car, deserves to be put into practice. the introduction of ecall in cars is a significant contribution to enhancing road safety in particular in all 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on ecall. all new cars should therefore be equipped with this system as from march 2018. the ecall system is a technology that will help to save lives in the event of an accident by automatically calling the emergency services. while the question of data protection could be a concern for some of the users, the system developed will be a dormant one, which means that it will not actively transmit the position of the vehicle in question.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle system. the introduction of ecall in road vehicles effectively prevents a large number of road fatalities and therefore makes a huge sense for the future. it is also important to me that ecall is free, reliable, works in all member states and above all that it respects data protection rules.
mr president, as regards this vote on the amendment of the original directive 2009/28/ec, i would like to say that for me this vote was a bit complicated. first of all, i'm not a fan of creating conventional biofuels, which are first-generation biofuels that have quite significant implications for land use, and we may not have fully understood the impact that these biofuels will have on the land. i have decided to support this proposal because it goes backwards from the original objective and i think it is very important for our use of the land and for what we leave to future generations. i would also caution against the ambitious goals being accompanied, for the time being, by, say, an uncritical consideration of how the impacts of our decisions may affect our soil, our future generations.
in writing. ‒ i support the reduction in the use of certain risky biofuels and an increase in biofuels that deliver greenhouse gas savings. the directive provides a clear legislative framework for the production of future biofuels as well as guidelines for future investment without disrupting existing ones.
in writing. ‒ at the time of the first reading of this directive, i was not yet a member of parliament and could not propose the abolition of the mandatory blending of bio-based ingredients in fuels. i voted for amendments that would reduce the share of first-generation biofuels from the current level to 6%.
in writing. i voted for the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because i believe, based on the number of studies that have been carried out, that support for traditional biofuels, however substantial, even in terms of limiting energy imports into the eu, has significant negative impacts. i therefore support the eu's shifting its focus from traditional biofuels to advanced biofuels or electromobility that do not have a negative environmental impact. i think it is wrong for the czech government to underestimate the change in the trend in biofuels support and it will therefore be a question of how it will compete with the agreed targets.
in writing. ‒ after five years of interinstitutional negotiations, i voted in favour of the reform of the euʼs biofuels policy. if not perfect, the text arrives at a good compromise. in particular, the text sets a cap of 7% on the use of first-generation agri-fuels in the final energy consumption of transport by 2020. fuel suppliers will also have to report to the member states of the eu and the commission on the estimated level of greenhouse gas emissions linked to indirect land-use change (iluc). the commission will then publish data on these emissions linked to the iluc factor. by the end of 2017 at the latest, the commission will report back to parliament and the council on the possibility of including iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for biofuels, on the basis of the best scientific data available.
in writing. ‒ it is very positive that the share of first generation biofuels is decreasing. at the same time, i am disappointed that the 7% cut is not ambitious enough and that the 6% cut i supported did not win wider support in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ promoting first generation biofuels and setting a 10% share was a huge mistake, now recognised by the european commission. in the czech republic, biofuels have become an attractive business linked to public subsidies and there is even a conflict of interest where the dominant producer of biofuels is a company owned by a current member of the government that decides on the subsidy system. we now have a chance to correct this at european level, but the ceiling is still set unnecessarily high and i would like to see it lower than the 7% ceiling.
mr president, i would like to explain why i did not vote for the motion to reject this directive. the directive only concerns one detail, plastic bags, which have an impact on the environment. igelite bags having a wall thickness of 15 to 50 microns. so these are lightweight plastic bags. the directive does not impose any obligation on member states, but gives them the choice of which tool to use to reduce consumption, whether it be charging or limiting the number of plastic carrier bags. the labelling of compostable materials and the push for research to recycle these plastic bags are also important measures. i expect the european union to tackle problems that the member states cannot, and environmental protection is one of those issues. that is why i supported this directive.
in writing. on 28 april 2015, the european parliament voted on a directive amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the restriction of the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. i voted against the rejection of the november 2014 text, which was the result of long interinstitutional negotiations between the council, the european parliament and the commission, because i consider it to be of high quality and helpful to environmental protection. if we reject the new amendment, it will only worsen the overall situation. billions of plastic bags end up as waste each year, polluting the oceans and seas, where they gradually break down into smaller and smaller particles and disrupt food chains. today, we're talking about enough plastic in the oceans to create a whole new continent. the text of the directive aims to halve the consumption of these bags within three years and to reduce it by a fifth within ten years. one of the biggest advantages of the new regulation, i see, is that it does not necessarily require artificial intervention to increase the price of these plastic bags. member states will have a choice between two options: either to take measures to ensure that the average annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags per citizen does not exceed 90 pieces by 2019 and 40 pieces by 2025, or to ensure that by 2018 these bags are not provided free of charge by traders.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the european union telling consumers what to carry with them when they shop. i have therefore proposed the rejection of this directive, which would end its legislative process.
in writing. ‒ the proposal newly includes an obligation for member states to achieve a sustainable reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. i am glad that the european parliament has gone further than the commission's original proposal in this respect. i am convinced that the proposal will not have the effect of placing excessive demands on eu citizens, but will instead provide them with an adequate incentive to protect natural resources. eu member states must now ensure that the annual consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags does not exceed 90 pieces/person by 2019 (and 40 bags/person by the end of 2025). i also consider it essential to call on the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals for the labelling of biodegradable and compostable plastic bags. the lack of a uniform label so far means that products with different levels of biodegradability are labelled as biodegradable or compostable (some products, even in the process of decomposition, can cause more harm to nature than good, in particular the so-called oxo-biological bags), thus depriving the term biodegradable of its meaning and not guaranteeing to the consumer that it really does good for the protection of nature. the regulation adopted by parliament does not cover so-called very lightweight plastic bags (such as plastic bags used for buying fruit) which are necessary for hygiene reasons and to prevent waste. but in the future, we're going to have to find meaningful and realistic solutions to deal with this problem as well.
in writing. i see the obligation of member states to achieve a lasting reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags as an obligation for each of us to work towards reducing the environmental burden and to try to prevent further unnecessary pollution. for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, we will have binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation. it's about time.
‒ i supported the resulting compromise between the european parliament and the council, which sets out binding measures to reduce waste in the case of plastic bags at eu level. in doing so, member states may choose how to limit the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags and what measures to put in place. prevention of waste generation is more important than subsequent environmental impact management. i therefore welcome the agreement and thank the rapporteur for her work.
‒ i regard the european parliament's legislative resolution as an example of an acceptable compromise between the institutions. i believe that the environment is one of the areas which should logically be of interest to the union. all member states can then influence, for example, the amount of plastic waste in the seas, which is certainly of interest not only to the citizens of the coastal member states but to the citizens of all member states without distinction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached on the plastic bags legislation which aims to reduce by half, by 2019, and at least 80% by 2025, the use of disposable lightweight plastic bags, which is a major source of pollution. this legislation, if properly implemented could solve a major environmental problem. under the text agreed, member states will be able to choose between charging for these bags by 2018 or reducing average annual consumption to 90 per citizen by the end of 2019. the member states will report back on the annual consumption of these plastic bags three years after the directive enters into force.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, it is good that member states will have a choice about the path they choose to take to limit plastic bags. on the other hand, the directive introduces a system of administrative complexity and i have some doubts about the usefulness of this regulation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the initiative to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. the current consumption, in my view, has exceeded the limits of tolerance and has a very negative socio-economic impact. therefore, i fully support the application of the price increase in combination with the restriction of the sale of plastic shopping bags. it is important to me to achieve positive environmental outcomes and to raise public awareness of sustainable consumption.
in writing. it is estimated that maritime transport now emits more than a billion tonnes of co2 a year. if we are fighting to reduce emissions in the field of road and air transport, it is obvious to me that we should do the same in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it creates a framework for strengthening the independence of national statistical authorities, the selection of statistical methods and the way data is collected. this process is important for the impartiality, trustworthiness and high quality of data collected across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report aiming to restore and maintain conservation of baltic cod, herring and sprat and to ensure that stocks are exploited sustainably so that maximum sustainable yield can be achieved as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ this is a very technical issue that is part of the change in fisheries policy. i am not a supporter of the common fisheries policy and i do not think that changing it will make things any better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on landing requirements for fish. one of the main objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) is to phase out discards in all fisheries, by bringing in a landing obligation for all catches of fish.
in writing. ‒ croatia is the newest eu member and therefore the treaties had to be updated to include it as part of one contracting party. this will allow croatia to join the trade and investment provided for in the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities, the member states and the russian federation.
mr president, i thank you for allowing me to comment on this report, which was supported by a large majority in the european parliament today. it concerns the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process. this report was prepared by my colleague, krystyna łybacka, and i would like to thank her very much for the very comprehensive report and the cooperation that she has had with this report. unfortunately, the european parliament's plenary session was not able to debate and stress that this report is primarily aimed at promoting further development and funding by the european union towards improving the quality of higher education within the so-called european higher education area. the report was also prepared in the context of the forthcoming bologna process ministerial conference to be held in yerevan in may and is therefore a mandate for that ministerial conference. so i thank my colleagues for their cooperation on this report.
‒ the strategy of increasing the number of university students at all costs has, in my opinion, failed completely. the percentage of people who graduate is increasing, but that does not mean that there is a market for so many higher education graduates. on the contrary, it is becoming evident that crafts and practical skills are lacking, as governments and schools increasingly push students toward higher education. furthermore, i believe that education is a matter for the individual states and schools, and any calls for centralization are only to the detriment and away from the needs of the people.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted the resolution proposed by our political group on the so-called bologna process. the bologna process promotes the development of quality higher education to achieve the cultural, economic and social development of european countries. on the one hand, there is a need to deal with the different levels of education systems in the different eu countries, to promote mobility and the exchange of international experience, but on the other hand, to maintain the exceptional nature and specificity of national education systems. i am convinced that even the best-designed education system will not be of any use if it is not directly linked to the requirements of the labour market, which is one of the key messages of the resolution adopted today. the objectives set by the bologna process have not yet been achieved and it must be noted that the member states are far behind. the resolution therefore comes at the right time, just days before the yerevan ministerial conference, and is a clear message from the european parliament to the member states: education is a key eu priority and member states need to do much more in this area if they are serious about europe's growth and competitiveness. i consider in particular that the removal of barriers to the mutual recognition of qualifications between member states is a major obstacle to the achievement of the objectives set. without that, any common strategy is meaningless.
‒ the bologna process aims, among other things, to ensure the convergence of different higher education systems with a view to creating more transparent systems. this process should not only result in high quality teaching and the integration of the european dimension in higher education, but also in the establishment of a system of academic degrees that are easily recognisable and comparable, and that promote the mobility of students, teachers and researchers. the prosperity of our european society depends to a large extent on cultural, scientific and technological development, and we should do everything we can to help this development. i therefore hereby join the call to the ehea countries to implement jointly agreed reforms aimed at accelerating the achievement of the bologna process objectives.
in writing. ‒ although the bologna process has achieved many of its objectives since its creation in 2000 towards a coherent, transparent and quality higher education, there is a need to revise the process to respond to current challenges such as youth unemployment, economic challenges or demographic changes in society. the challenge for the bologna process also remains to increase the social inclusion of under-represented and disadvantaged groups, to ensure their equal opportunities in accessing higher education and to promote their international mobility. it is therefore important that the ehea ministers, at their next meeting in yerevan, also address this issue and subject the current bologna system to an objective and critical assessment. i therefore supported the report by my colleague, ms krystyna łybacka, and i would also like to thank her for her work as rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the bologna process which is an essential tool to develop education though europe. over the past years, if there has been some progress made regarding quality, mobility and mutual recognition of qualifications between universities, there are still a number of areas that require further development. in this context, it is essential to respond to the new challenges that education is facing in europe and this report is a first step.
in writing. i supported this initiative because i believe that a uniform, transparent and high-quality higher education sector is essential for any development in europe, whether cultural, economic or social. the bologna process is crucial in my view, first of all, because it plays a very important role in reducing the skills mismatch in the eu. this is particularly true when we talk about the gap between the qualifications of graduates and the demand for them in the eu labour markets. i therefore strongly support the standardisation of the degree awarding system, as it will definitely increase the employability of graduates in the european union.
mr president, i am glad that the european parliament has adopted this report on european cinema in the digital age, because cinema is indeed a great cultural asset, but also an economic force. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament recognises the importance of cinemas as meeting places and supports the preservation of small independent cinemas. the resolution does not forget media literacy, which helps users to sort information in an age of information overload. i support and also welcome the effort to establish a european film forum. i've noticed that there's a concern amongst producers and distributors that the film industry might not survive. last but not least, the report supports the european parliament's lux prize, which has gained great prestige over the years and promotes european creativity.
in writing. ‒ i fundamentally disagree with the european union's ability to force service providers to promote any film. art is always a matter of taste of the viewer, not of the politician or the official. especially at a time of enormous debt across europe, i am against using taxpayers' money to finance films that will not succeed.
in writing. ‒ i consider today's european parliament resolution on film in the digital age to be important, particularly because it highlights the role of culture in the process of creating a united europe, while also putting one of the parts of the cultural sector in a current context. i believe that there is a need to continue to encourage the introduction of new business models and distribution channels which, in this case, make films available to the widest possible audience. i also believe that there is a need to continue to work on the development of cross-border accessibility of audiovisual services. in the future discussion on territoriality or portability, which will be held first in the juri committee, the protection of rightholders and the pursuit of a balanced solution must be equally strongly emphasised.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, film literacy has a very significant impact on individuals and i am not afraid to say that film shapes who we are like no other medium. i can say with confidence that watching european films is one way of learning about the history, culture, traditions and languages of europe's neighbours. i am therefore clearly in favour of more balanced public funding to strengthen support for activities such as project development, promotion and international distribution.
in writing. ‒ i am against the centralisation and intervention of the eu in the forestry sector. forests function best when they have a specific owner who cares for them, not a central authority.
in writing. i voted against the amendments tabled by the envi committee, which go beyond the report of the agri central committee and distort the balance of the pillars of forestry management in favour of the ecological and the economic and social aspects of forestry management. i believe that this unbalanced approach will not become the basis for eu policy making in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution asking for ambitious and objective criteria for managing forests sustainably and in close collaboration with member states, local authorities and forest owners. while the eu can help to improve coordination of its forestry-related policies, forestry must remain a matter for member states. the report also underlines that the eu forest strategy should enhance the competitiveness of the forestry industry to create jobs, which is an important point.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to join those who thank you for coming to discuss this today, and i would welcome it if we could get this strategy on the table earlier and study it. my message is not critical, but positive. as i have said many times in this place, ensuring the safety of european citizens is my absolute priority. this new security programme must therefore have a clear objective. the first objective is to be able to effectively fight terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. but the second goal is to also focus on the very essence of human rights. the security strategy must be such that the citizens of the european union are guaranteed freedom and not restrictions of any kind. i don't want to repeat what's already been said here. we all know that a european strategy cannot succeed without close cooperation with third countries. so i'll take the liberty of adding one thing to your strategy that you didn't mention. i want you to work with the less attractive countries, such as egypt, israel, jordan, tunisia, morocco and ukraine, in addition to the traditional partners with whom we cooperate in the field of security. these countries have a lot of experience in fighting terrorism and they have a lot to offer us.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, money market funds in the eu have systemic relevance as they are worth approximately eur 1 trillion, as we have already heard, and constitute around 15% of the eu funds industry. it was thus of crucial importance to allow the european economy and its investors to continue benefiting from both cnav and vnav funds. i am happy to say that this text answers our initial objectives by offering a balanced approach. these new rules will make sure money market funds do not threaten financial stability nor mislead investors by continued financing of the real economy in europe. the newly-created category of low volatility navs will be able to use the same valuation method as cnavs as long as the value of the fund does not deviate too much from the market value. this means more transparency for investors and will prevent run risk in the case of adverse market conditions. the task was not easy at all. those who followed the files during the previous and current mandate can confirm that. the negotiating team and the european parliament can be proud of having managed broad agreement on such a polemical and critical file. it is high time that the eu fulfilled its international commitment in this field and provided some answers that are up to the challenge in order to address the possible systemic risk posed by mmfs while offering the industry a workable solution. parliament has done its job, i hope. i believe this unexpectedly positive outcome will send a strong signal to the council that it has now to fulfil its mission and deliver.
the reporter. madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, before approving the report on discharge to the european development fund which i am presenting, is it perhaps the right moment to reflect on what we actually expect from this development fund? its importance and significance were unintentionally reminded of quite recently by another tragedy off the coast of the italian island of lampedusa. in the heated debate on migration, asylum and development policy in the european union, it may not have been clear enough that the european development fund is the instrument that should help to prevent a repeat of this. yes, we expect the fund to use its limited resources to overcome the causes of extreme poverty in countries with unsustainable economic development and failing public institutions, in countries torn by political and social crises. the european development fund cannot eliminate this unhappy situation altogether, but it can try to prevent some undesirable phenomena, such as the increasing and life-threatening emigration of desperate people to european countries, by systematic aid. as regards the discharge for the european development fund, i consider it to be significant for at least three reasons: the first is to evaluate its functioning to date. let's learn from our mistakes and be inspired by what we've done well. the second reason is the need to set the priorities of the fund in the light of the changing needs of the developing world in relation to the european union. finally, the third reason is our recommendations for the continued operation of the fund in the longer term. of course, on the basis of efficiency and transparency. we have a lot of experience and insight into how the support system has worked so far. in my opinion, it's time to abandon some of the stereotypes we've been used to. for example, in terms of risks in the beneficiary countries. the risk was simply taken for granted and this was matched by a relatively high error rate in the projects considered, which, moreover, did not produce the desired effect. similarly, the monitoring and control system has not always been able to address the deficiencies identified. even with the overall high contribution of the aid, there were certainly some cases where the situation was not optimal. i therefore consider it necessary to take the following steps: let us assess the strategic priorities of the european development fund that we have jointly set and focus on the really important areas where we will implement further projects to support entrepreneurship, infrastructure development or to address urgent social issues. this requires a significant reduction in error rates, a focus on content priorities and the choice of the financial instrument and project management that best achieve the objectives. in implementing aid, we must be aware of the differences in conditions between developing and european countries. we cannot rely exclusively on local intermediaries, but the solution is not to adopt european practices entirely either. we should really be sensitive and objective in balancing the economic and political motives and incentives for aid, because we have a duty to monitor the effectiveness of financial instruments as well. the european development fund should be seen as a meaningful return on investment, not just a gift from a 'rich european uncle'. our report agrees that we need precise, transparent and strategic priorities that respond to real and current needs. the use of modern financial instruments can lead to enhanced efficiency and transparency. we recommend that a functional management, monitoring and control system be adopted. finally, we recommend that the european development fund should become an integral part of the budget of the european union. then we can use the funds immediately and quickly to help where it is urgently needed. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their exemplary and creative cooperation, and i thank the commission and the european court of auditors for their excellent cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, first of all, let me thank mrs gräßle very warmly for her excellent report, which she has done very well. i was in the agency business. many of the 32 european agencies are facing various problems. from conflict of interest, to low transparency and internal integrity, to poor budget implementation and planning. many of the agencies are trying to address these problems, others are trying to address them less successfully. therefore, the discharge to the eit, whose budgetary performance was very unconvincing in that year and which we already know will be so in the following year, namely 2014, should be postponed. the agency's account balance was very unsatisfactory. budget implementation was low and the agency had problems with ex ante verification of grant transactions. the european court of auditors even revealed weaknesses in public procurement and conflicts of interest with a low absorption capacity. there's a lot of room for improvement. on the contrary, frontex, which has had problems with grant agreements, should be given discharge despite its weaknesses. i think it's very important, especially because of what's happening in the mediterranean now.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am very pleased that it has been said several times in this debate that discharge does not end with tomorrow's vote, but is a long-term process. in my report, the past and the evaluation of the accounts of the european development fund also intersect with the future of the european development fund. our report, across the bodies involved in its preparation, favours a precise, transparent and strategic definition of the priorities of both the future european development fund and the future european development fund. i would like to highlight three main points that have been made by my colleagues. first, the adoption of financial instruments comparable to those used in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, in particular in its modernised form, is a way to enhance efficiency and transparency. secondly, we need to take account of the higher risk in the beneficiary countries and adapt the management, monitoring and control system to this. thirdly, i would like to consider, and i propose in my report, that the european development fund should become an integral part of the budget of the european union, also for reasons of accessibility. we need flexibility to be able to use resources immediately and quickly and help where it is needed at the moment. i thank the european court of auditors, i thank the commission for their cooperation, and i have to say that no question of mine has been left unanswered. thank you to the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, thank you to the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe group and thank you to my team. i thank all my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control, and especially its chair, mrs gräßle. you've heard the presentation of 52 news stories, and you've heard that it's one news story for every week of the year, and we have to perceive them, study them, carefully consider them in a short period of time. so believe me, the committee on budgetary control is doing a very good job for this parliament and for the european union, and i'm happy to be a part of it. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again all my shadow rapporteurs for their exemplary and creative cooperation, which has resulted in no amendments being sent to the final version of the text. it's a very pleasant experience for me personally.
in writing. the discharge for 2013 constitutes the final step towards closing the budgetary management of the previous multiannual financial framework. the committee on budgetary control also confirmed by its vote that the european commission had been run in accordance with the rules. however, despite the committee's recommendations, we can in no way afford to ignore the shortcomings that have been brought to our attention by the european court of auditors. more specifically, this means that we need to work in particular on reducing the administrative error rate, which is 45%. these are mainly agriculture, regional policy and employment policy. in this respect, it should be noted that it is precisely the member states with the highest error rates. i am convinced that we can achieve better results in the future. but these will depend on better information, the introduction of effective preventive measures and, in particular, the recognition that european funds must be spent effectively and not at any cost. all actors need to take responsibility, albeit at the cost of penalties for misreporting results. the resources in the already tight eu budget must be spent to the best of our ability. it must be used to really kick-start economic growth, increase employment, investment and protect the most vulnerable. otherwise, it is indefensible to the citizens of the european union.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular, because the cooperation has been excellent. we have shown that europe can also agree and react quickly. the ball is now, of course, in the national team's court. to give you one example, today in the czech newspaper, it was reported that the capital of my country, prague, has the lowest unemployment rate of any region in the european union, currently at 2.5%. this is certainly great news, but we must see it in the context of europe as a whole. because as far as youth unemployment is concerned, the level here is also rising to 10.1%. this is still a great result when you consider that the west epirus region has a youth unemployment rate of 69.8%. this is why we need to focus at european and national level on the regions that need our immediate and effective support. the youth unemployment initiative has a budget of eur 3.2 billion. the pre-financing will make eur 1 billion available immediately, of which over eur 4 million will be for the czech republic. but of course, we all know that jobs can't be bought. jobs suitable for young graduates must be created in line with the real needs of the economy. that is why i think it is so important that programmes such as the youth employment initiative are complemented by labour market reforms at national level. the transition between study and work should be natural, and the number of graduates in each subject should be based on the real needs of the labour market. pay attention to the alignment of skills and job opportunities, not only at national level but also across the european union. simplify the rules for setting up and financing companies, focus on technical and vocational training, support start-ups, internships, traineeships. let us do our utmost together to tackle the root causes of unemployment and avoid having to spend more and more resources in the future on training young people to work.
mr president, i welcome the decision of the rapporteur and other colleagues to support unequivocally the commission's proposal for a substantial increase in the funding for the youth employment initiative. this accelerated release of eur 1 billion for 2015 demonstrates that the european union takes the fight against youth unemployment very seriously. if we have any concern about these resources being used effectively, then we should be concerned about how our governments are managing these resources. i am personally in contact with officials of the czech government and the ministry of labour and i am interested in how these programmes are prepared. i have information that the czech republic is prepared to draw on these emergency funds in regions with higher unemployment. in addition to prague having very low unemployment, we also have two regions with high unemployment, which exceeds 25% among young people under 25 years of age. in this respect, i would also like to call for the promotion of vocational training, which should be financed by these funds and which will ensure that it is also an investment. an investment in the future, an investment that will give motivation and confidence to young people and to employers. i'm glad to see that this motion has strong support.
in writing. the concept of compulsory quotas, which is mentioned in this text, is very problematic for central european countries such as the czech republic. the present appeal is a call on the european commission to initiate the legislative procedure, which must be agreed by the european parliament and the member states. in this hastily drafted resolution, which aims to address the recent tragedy, there was no room to define the options for helping the southern countries to cope with the influx of migrants. regardless of the validity of the geneva conventions, it is our duty to help refugees who would lose their lives and be subjected to cruelty in their own country. in such cases, it is necessary to provide for aid for a temporary period. however, this needs to be clearly defined and distinguished from situations where asylum is sought by unauthorised persons.
‒ this is one of the key annual reports of the european parliament, or the key report of the cont committee. i am pleased that the european parliament was able to give discharge to the european commission and the executive agencies this year and i supported the discharge, but i do not agree with some of the points in the accompanying statement. i am particularly concerned that the group of the party of european socialists has failed to push through proposals calling for the removal of some misleading statistics which distort the real situation and create the impression of a general mismanagement of funds invested in key european policies. another point with which i fundamentally disagree is the part about the sahara refugee camp in tindouf, algeria. data on both misuse of aid and non-existing refugee registration are completely outdated, with olaf closing its case last year with unproven findings. in addition, the commission is working with updated refugee numbers, there has been a strengthening of on-the-spot checks and a change in the form of aid that cannot be abused. on the contrary, the allegations in the report may harm the situation of refugees and/or hinder the delivery of vital humanitarian aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of giving discharge to the european commission, although it should be stressed that there are still huge weaknesses in the implementation of the european budget and the error rate is still high. in the years ahead, the european commission needs to step up its cooperation with the member states in the reallocation of european grants and provide clear guidance on the selection and evaluation of projects in which it invests. the commission must focus on ensuring that projects supported by the financial instruments in the different areas have added value. we need to stop the whole "give it all away" attitude. on the contrary, only quality projects should be taken into account, otherwise we will lose credibility in the eyes of european citizens.
mr president, i would like to point out that i supported this report for a number of reasons. youth unemployment is a very serious problem indeed, with over 20% of the unemployment rate indicating something, even though it is already declining in some countries. but i would point out that the debate here has been that, if these measures are adopted, up to 600 000 jobs are to be lost, which are to be created by these measures. i very much hope so, but in any case, it is hard to imagine that this figure could be reached without further measures. this also requires the creation of investment opportunities at the state level, the reduction of bureaucratic burdens, in short, of everything that reduces the activity of the private sector of entrepreneurs, and i think that even some restriction on the part of the european parliament, the council and the commission in the adoption of new measures would be beneficial and perhaps would best reduce the unemployment rate.
in writing. the youth unemployment rate has been at a dramatic high for several years and is still rising. the european union has provided member states with a number of tools to actively address this phenomenon, including through the youth employment initiative. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2007-2013 and the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (the 'european schools for the future' programme). unfortunately, these countries do not have sufficient funds to co-finance and are therefore unable to make sufficient use of this instrument to offer young people employment, traineeships or training. i welcome the fact that the commission has enabled the launch of some important projects by deciding to swiftly release an additional eur 1 billion in pre-financing as from 2015. this increase in appropriations represents an increase in the prefinancing rate from 1% to 30% and demonstrates that the european union takes the fight against unemployment in europe very seriously. i also appreciate that both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have dropped amendments to speed up the approval of the allocation of funds, and that the report was supported by an absolute majority of the european parliament's plenary.
in writing. i supported this initiative, particularly in view of the fact that the youth unemployment rate has been reaching dramatic levels for several decades. when a young person is unemployed and not involved in the educational process or vocational training, this has negative impacts not only on the individual but also on the society and economy of the country, as it can negatively contribute to social hostility or increased youth crime. i am a strong believer that the youth employment initiative is key to the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in support of making the law as accessible and transparent as possible for citizens, i voted in favour of this codification, which amends and consolidates the various regulations relating to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as this is only a codification of agreements already in force and no provisions are changed.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is one of the pillars of the european union's common strategy towards south-east europe, which aims to create a zone of political stability and economic prosperity. personally, i fully support this initiative and believe that the european union should help macedonia to fully establish a democratic institution of the rule of law and contribute to the development of economic activity in the region.
mr president, i supported the discharge for the european parliament, but i would like to draw attention to the accompanying resolution. yesterday we voted in favour of a resolution on european cinema in the digital age. we have therefore also supported the lux film prize, but in this resolution we voted on today, the european parliament is instead asking for a cost-benefit analysis to be carried out so that parliament can make an informed decision on the continuation of the prize. i did not support this additional resolution, but unfortunately it was passed. it's basically a contradiction in terms. i would also like to point out that we adopted a motion in the accompanying resolution recommending one seat. there is a huge financial disproportion here, because the running of the ep here in strasbourg costs €114 million a year, while the ep's support for the lux prize is less than €450 000.
mr president, i voted to give discharge to the european parliament, since this institution had no more serious problems. however, in this context, it should be added that we still have work to do in terms of transparency and improving the internal functioning of our institution. on the one hand, parliament has still not adopted internal rules on whistleblowers and their protection, and i think that is a very serious problem. this body must also have other internal rules, for example, on the recruitment of assistants that we have in the country. these points must therefore be addressed and changed as soon as possible in order to avoid further scandals damaging the reputation of the institution.
mr president, i voted for the postponement of the discharge to the council and the european council, because these institutions have consistently refused to cooperate with the european parliament and thus refuse to be subject to any detailed scrutiny. it also rejects responsibility to european citizens. the high degree of non-transparency and internal integrity of this institution speaks of superiority over other institutions and arrogance. the council ignores the questions of the european parliament, which is the discharge authority, does not take part in the hearings and refuses any cooperation in this area. many of the expenditures are shrouded in secrecy, such as the mysterious europa building. this approach must change, as it is not only in direct contradiction to the values of the european union, but also reinforces euroscepticism.
mr president, i voted to give the european ombudsman a discharge because he is a truly exemplary european institution, contributing to greater transparency in the other european institutions. i cannot stress enough the good work of the european ombudsman, who is not only fully open to working with the european parliament and other institutions, but also proactively willing to investigate problematic events and to mediate between eu citizens and the institutions. i must highlight in particular the ombudsman, ms emily o'reilly, who has contributed to improving the eu's overall image and i sincerely hope that she will maintain this excellent pace in the future.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree that the report welcomes the cost of this office, which costs taxpayers more than seven and a half million euros a year. i don't think any agency could increase the protection of our data, and i always advocate that the state and officials should be able to process our sensitive data as little as possible.
mr president, european agencies are very sensitive to external influences, especially those of multinational corporations operating in the sector. many of them still have not implemented such measures to prevent excessive exposure in areas that affect european consumers on a daily basis. this is particularly the case for the efsa and emea agencies which regulate food and medicines entering the european market. i did vote to discharge both agencies, but with a big "y". i want to see both agencies take our comments to heart and improve their independence and eliminate any weaknesses that could lead to a conflict of interest. the award should reward the progress made by both agencies in the field and serve as a motivating force for improvement and for cooperation with the parliament, the commission and other eu institutions.
in writing. my decision to vote in favour of the discharge of frontex is based on the belief that the agency has already adopted some effective measures to address the problems identified by the european court of auditors, and this will be reflected in the 2014 discharge report. it is important to recognise that if we want to achieve change in agencies, we need to offer them constructive mechanisms for dialogue and cooperation. we don't want to put them in a corner, but to motivate them to do a better job, which is the case with frontex. frontex had problems with the grant agreements. the commission also found that the exporting producers concerned had not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned had been granted preferential access to the market for the product concerned. but they actively address these weaknesses. i am in favour of granting discharge to frontex, also because we need a strong frontex at the moment to face the challenges in the mediterranean.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to postpone the discharge for the iter joint undertaking. the fact that the european parliament's control committee has proposed not to grant discharge to 4 of the 7 eu joint undertakings is a sign of very tight control mechanisms, which i of course welcome as a member of that committee. in the case of iter, however, i believe that many members were motivated by ideological reasons (general opposition to nuclear energy) when voting against the postponement proposal in the control committee. the findings cannot be considered objective in many cases. in all the respects complained of, the improvement of this joint undertaking compared with the previous year was very significant and was not taken into account at all. a number of vulnerabilities found have since been removed or completely minimized. i am glad that iter has finally been granted a discharge, but at the same time it commits us to stricter controls in the future. i believe that in the coming year we will confirm that our current decision was correct.
in writing. ‒ i am reasonably happy with the compromise reached on the mmf regulation. my principal aim was to make the funds safer for investors while addressing possible systemic risks. it was also important to me that we preserve their attractiveness to investors in order to finance the real economy. my concern remains the sunset clause, which i fear may prevent the new lvnav category from becoming established as the successor to the current cnav product.
in writing. - i voted against further unnecessary regulation of the financial market. moreover, i do not think that the european union should be the central authority on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the compromise reached on the mmf regulation. the text proposed make the funds safer for investors while addressing possible systemic risks. it also preserves their attractiveness to investors in order to finance the real economy which is extremely important for europe in our current economic situation.
in writing. council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other agreed arrangements. in recent years, the european union has kept out of the agreement only bilateral textile trade agreements with russia and serbia, which have lapsed as a result of circumstances such as russia's accession to the wto and the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. regulation (eec) no 3030/93 fixed quantitative limits for certain textile products originating in the people's republic of china for a limited period as a specific safeguard mechanism. the mechanism effectively expired on 11 december 2013. it is therefore necessary to repeal that regulation as well.
mr president, the office of the prosecutor is one of the last remnants of the fallen euro-constitution, it is a kind of "zombie" left to us here from the euro-constitution. that is one of the main reasons why i voted against the juncker commission, which has this on its agenda, and of course i voted against it today. i'm surprised the ep is going through this without much interest. there are a lot of people here who are very sensitive to privacy intrusions, they're very sensitive to privacy protection, and this is creating a new authority, a real big brother, just something that can threaten the privacy of eu citizens. and i believe that this office is not only unnecessary and costly, but in a way dangerous, it will come into conflict with national authorities, with national powers, with national legislation, and that is why i think it needs to be rejected in a very strong and clear way.
mr. chairman, i have supported this motion, although i have considerable reservations about it. the future european public prosecutor's office will be responsible for the whole of the european union. the question remains how this office can be as efficient as possible. some of my concerns are about the extension of time limits to resolve individual cases that could arise from moving files from one desk to another. furthermore, the european public prosecutor could deal with cases of prosecution against the eu, but there is no police and judicial component to this office. therefore, i think that my concerns are not unfounded and that they may be met soon after the establishment of an office which will then not have the competence to bring an action in a given case before the court.
‒ apart from constitutional law, i cannot think of any other area of law that is as sensitive to the individual member states as criminal law. it reflects each member state's own experience of crime specific to its territory, views on crime prevention and post-conviction care programmes. the proposal to establish a european public prosecutor's office was a dangerous idea to me from the outset. the proposal has the form of a regulation, that is, in the czech republic it will automatically take the form of a law, without any possibility for the state to choose another form of transposition into the legal order. if we look at the details of the proposed legislation, we find a number of shortcomings. the first is the lack of a proven compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, i.e. the eu's power to intervene only in those matters that the member states do not manage sufficiently and that the eu can manage better. the commission has not been able to give a convincing rationale for the establishment of this office, nor is it clear to me on what basis the commission has concluded that member states are unable to investigate and prosecute offences against the eu's financial interests on their territory. i am not even convinced that the establishment of this office will mean more effective and faster prosecution of the perpetrators of such offences, quite the contrary. for example, the proposal does not address the linguistic issue, nor does it address the appeals against the initiation of proceedings. that's why i voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this the interim report on the proposal for the european prosecutor's office. the text clearly underlines the fact that the prosecutor's office should fight european budget fraud and be fully independent from national governments and the european institutions and subject to democratic control. in the same line, the prosecutor's office should not be subject to any political pressure. this is essential for its efficiency.
mr president, i think it is extremely difficult to find the words in this tragic case. i think that a lot has been said and i can only subscribe to it. referring to the commissionerʼs speech, i must say that i did not find anything in the speech i would disagree with, both on the persecution of the christians part, as well as on kenya. there is one thing that i missed, though, in the speech and i would appreciate it, commissioner, if you could come back to that. you have spoken about the council conclusions on terrorism, you have spoken about concrete cases and concrete solutions, and i feel that you have stopped, in fact, just short of giving us a piece of your analysis, of your perceptions – what are the conclusions, what are the lessons that we have learned? what is it that has taken place since then? what have the services done in interaction with the services and state representatives of kenya? what is it that we can do in terms of institution-building? what is it that is needed? what are the concrete steps we want to take in order to prevent situations like that really happening?
mr president, the kyrgyz writer genghis aitmatov, who comes from a muslim background, made the hero of his novel "the execution" christian kalistratov. why would you do that? he explained that islam does not recognize the concept of a moral personality. and that's also why christians are persecuted all over the world wherever they meet muslims and other, i would say, militant groups. i have to say that our weakness is also explained by a woman whom i respect immensely, named sabatina james, who in the eyes of her muslim community made two mistakes, namely, she refused a forced marriage and converted to christianity. she identified with the european intellectual milieu and says that our biggest mistake in europe is that we are tolerant of intolerance. this has to stop, tolerance cannot be about what is intolerant. i think we have an obligation to protect christians and people who share our values around the world.
madam president, the holocaust was the embodiment of collective guilt. the collective blame, according to the ottoman empire, was laid on the armenians who were murdered in 1915. in the second chechen war, a chechen told me. we are guilty of being born chechens. on the principle of collective guilt, the russian army murdered 80,000 civilians there. it's the same principle that killed the hutus in rwanda. the murdered students in garissa, kenya, were also blamed for the collective guilt, they were christians. the hatred of christians and the recurrent barbaric acts such as the murders at charlie hebdo and garissa are developing a dangerous spiral of sectarian hatred. hatred of christians fuels a wave of hatred of muslims and vice versa. it's as if sectarian hatreds are fueling most of the conflicts in the world today. let us recall the words of the great catholic exegete hans küng: "without confessional peace, there will be no peace in the world".
madam president, i have been thinking about speaking out, and i see my speaking out as an opportunity to express some concern about what members of these radical groups are doing with our speaking out. i think they might be smiling at them. i think what's essential for us is for moral authorities like the pope and muslim clerics to come together to condemn these actions, to come together to issue some kind of resolution or to make their own speech to those who are radicalizing today, that this is not the way, that this is not the direction of their faith. i think that the joint action of the clergy of the various major religious groups is simply missing today, and there is no common thread that would condemn this spiral of violence. religious hatred is one of the things that i think is producing radicalization of all groups of young people and of course of others.
madam president, as in nimrod, which was a war crime, mosul is definitely a breach of resolution 2199. others are in the same category. this is cultural cleansing. this is a clash between civilisation and barbarians. this is a war. these are weapons which are designed to hit us. these are meant to be painful. these are meant to be destructive, by imposing their way of life over ours. this is to divide us and divide our societies. the response also requires a set of weapons. it requires a firm reaction: a reaction in prevention, in investigation and in punishment, but also in restoration. i think that the joint resolution that we will be voting on tomorrow addresses many of these issues, starting from broadening the definition of crimes. in this regard, we need to see interaction between the european union, the international criminal court and unesco – all the way – to allow us to prepare ourselves for restoration. we need to act and we need to be united in this respect. i think we need to act as fast as possible.
madam president, i would like to personally support all the speakers who have spoken on the situation in the maldives. the trial to which former president nasheed was subjected clearly does not meet any of the relevant fair trial criteria and the issue of the radicalization of the maldives is one that should undoubtedly concern the european union. we should tell all tourists heading to this island nation that the tourist concept of this country does not correspond to the reality of the society in which the maldivian people live. we should therefore support the efforts of the commission, mrs mogherini and other eu officials to prevent this state from going down the path of isis.
madam president, i would also like to acknowledge the progress that albania has made over the last 20 years. however, there is undoubtedly still much to be done, particularly in the field of the protection of the independence of the judiciary. the democratic trend that albania has set is undoubtedly a good one, but it is of course threatened by the scandals that are unfolding, and the elections that await albania in the coming weeks may show whether the pro-european orientation of this country is the real trend and direction of the political scene in albania. i would like to point to the positive example of moldova, which in its elections last semester showed that it is really serious about its pro-european orientation. and so he wanted to challenge and encourage albania to continue on this course.
author. mr president, allow me to briefly present a question on behalf of the committee on legal affairs concerning the marrakesh treaty on the facilitation of access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons or persons with other reading disabilities. this international agreement was negotiated within the world intellectual property organization and adopted in june 2013. the european union signed the treaty on 30 april 2014 but has not yet ratified it. the marrakesh treaty introduces a set of rules which allow for the existence of restrictions or exceptions to copyright at national level for the benefit of persons who are blind or visually impaired, and which also ensure the cross-border exchange of accessible format copies of published works for which copyright exceptions have been granted. the contract allows various organisations providing services to the blind and visually impaired to make copies of works accessible to such persons in accessible formats, to lend such copies or to make them available by electronic means on a non-profit basis. the treaty thus brings significant improvements to the situation of blind and visually impaired citizens, who are eagerly awaiting its entry into force. the question at this stage is therefore, first of all, when can we expect the council to take a decision on ratifying the marrakesh treaty and why has this not yet happened? if there are legal doubts on the part of some member states as to whether all the provisions of the treaty fall within the exclusive competence of the european union, we would welcome an active approach by the presidency to ensure that these uncertainties are quickly clarified and lead, as a result, to the ratification of the treaty and its entry into force. the european parliament is certainly ready to help in this matter. i believe that, particularly in the case of an international treaty which has a clear humanitarian and social dimension, because it significantly improves the situation of disabled eu citizens, a satisfactory solution should be actively pursued. i personally think that ratification should not wait for the outcome of the debate on the reform of the eu copyright system, which has not yet begun and will probably take some time. i hope, therefore, that the doubts will soon be removed and that the marrakesh treaty can be ratified.
madam president, i am speaking as a member of parliament elected in the czech republic, a country known for producing excellent quality beer and also for its high consumption of this alcohol. i voted for this report, but i would like to explain that i am concerned about the title of this report, which is misleading. this report should not be called the 'alcohol report' but 'alcoholism'. it is a resolution which is directed against alcohol abuse, against the risks of alcoholism, not against alcohol itself, with particular emphasis on the protection of pregnant women and adolescents. i think that the title 'report on alcoholism' would be more understandable to the european public. but i agree that this report proposes raising the drinking age above 18, which is not the case everywhere in europe. the possibility of reducing the availability of very cheap alcohol and responsible advertising is also important. in view of the recent tragic experience in my own country with the methanol affair, i welcome the call for the commission and the member states to strengthen controls in the fight against the production of alcohol in bottles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole because i believe we must do all we can to tackle the problem of alcoholism and the phenomenon of excessive drinking, especially by young people. however, i voted against those amendments calling for significant changes to the labelling of different alcohols. i do not believe that adding the calorie count of a particular drink will greatly affect the drinking habits of people today or lead europeans to adopt a healthier lifestyle. it is just one more distraction on already crowded labels.
in writing. on 29 april 2015, i voted in favour of the report on the new eu (anti) alcohol strategy. the world health organization warns that alcoholism is responsible for 3.3 million premature deaths worldwide. these deaths are most likely to be related to traffic accidents, violence, and liver disease. the situation is particularly sad in the czech republic, which ranks among the absolute world leaders in alcohol consumption for all age groups. excessive drinking, then, is not only a health problem but a social problem in particular, and it must be tackled seriously. in some ways, alcohol is more dangerous than smoking. smokers do not usually attack their environment under the influence of nicotine, and smoking does not destroy entire families. excessive alcohol consumption is also logically linked to obesity. the european parliament's report rightly recommends that member states require manufacturers and importers of spirit drinks to indicate on the bottles the calorific value of the beverage sold and to warn that it is not suitable for drivers and pregnant women. we have nutritional values on virtually every product now. if we have these data on any bar we buy in the store, there's no reason why it should continue to be missing on alcohol.
in writing. - at a time of enormous debt in the eu, rising unemployment and discontent in europe, i do not think it is wise to try to tackle a pan-european strategy to combat alcohol. first, alcohol consumption is a matter and a responsibility of citizens, and the eu should not try to play the role of a caring 'parent'. secondly, the consumption of alcohol cannot be dealt with by any regulation, recommendation or prohibition. the effects of prohibition in the united states have created a very bad situation, and the experience of the united states shows that trying to limit people's drinking leads nowhere.
‒ the negative effects of excessive alcohol consumption merit a strategic approach at eu level and subsequent legislative action. i welcome the focus on groups of people whose drinking can have fatal consequences, such as drivers, young people and pregnant women. in the foreseeable future, there should be an obligation for manufacturers of alcoholic beverages to warn drivers, young people and pregnant women against drinking alcohol. at the same time, the obligation to indicate the calorie content of alcoholic beverages on labels, which is currently applicable to all packaged foodstuffs, should be introduced. i see no reason why it should not apply to alcoholic beverages, but the technical details will need to be fine-tuned, but as with similar regulations, the benefits and costs of this policy should be carefully considered and ways should be sought to reduce the burden on producers, especially small firms.
‒ in today's vote on the motion for a resolution on the eu alcohol strategy, i supported the ep amendments, as i believe that, for example, considering the possibility of eu information campaigns that are properly targeted and designed overall to be really effective is a better solution than mandatory labelling of alcoholic beverages with a text warning of the possible consequences of excessive consumption. in this area, the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, as the customs of handling alcoholic beverages (within the limits of the law) vary in different parts of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution asking the commission to present a new alcohol strategy based on a strong impact assessment for the period 2016-2022. the 2006 eu strategy expired in 2012 and has not yet been replaced. in this context, it is essential to pursue our efforts against abusive alcohol consumption, especially among young people, and also to prevent drink-driving and drinking during pregnancy. it should be noted that the text makes a distinction between moderate and excessive alcohol consumption.
in writing. - i am very sorry for the victims of the tragedy that happened in the bangladesh factory. but i don't think the eu should try to oversee factories around the world and tell sovereign states what laws or regulations to adopt. i am particularly concerned about the populist calls for raising the minimum wage, which could leave a large proportion of people in the third world unemployed and deepen their poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza textile factory collapse. while i welcome the progress made towards improving labour standards and conditions, as well as workplace safety in the country, much still need to be done. the bangladeshi government has to pursue and speed up its reforms in the short, medium and long term, and the companies involved must behave more responsibly.
madam president, my political group is against quotas for the redistribution of refugees, as is my political party, even the government in my country, to which i am currently in opposition. so it is surprising to me that the members of the european parliament who come from the governing parties voted for quotas, but i am really convinced that quotas will not solve anything, they will only make the situation worse. we must show that europe is not capable of absorbing tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands more refugees, we must be able to protect our southern border, the eu's maritime border, invest resources, use methods such as towing captured illegal smuggling vessels back to their home ports. and we also need to invest money in stabilizing the situation in the countries from which refugees come, rather than using artificial arbitrary quotas to redistribute refugees.
madam president, i also want to explain why i voted in favour of the final resolution on the mediterranean tragedies and european migration and asylum policy. i consider this resolution to be a comprehensive one, covering all the measures that can help to resolve this very pressing issue, and this in the context of solidarity between all the european countries. i voted against mandatory quotas, but also in the knowledge that an effective policy must also be dealt with in relation to the member states, that no mandatory quotas will be agreed without the support and decision of the national governments of the member states. so it's about taking a comprehensive approach, to address where the problems are, which is in the middle east, where the politics are really leading to these tragedies. these are only secondary measures and we have to work together within the eu, which is why i supported the comprehensive resolution, which includes a proposal for quotas, which will not be agreed without the agreement of the member states.
madam chairman, thank you for the opportunity to explain your vote yesterday. i voted against paragraphs 8 and 10 yesterday, which are the mandatory quotas. the way the resolution was written, i think it was very unfortunate in wording. and under no circumstances can a resolution worded in this way be acted upon. however, as a sign of solidarity with the people dying in the mediterranean, i supported the resolution as a whole, because it is important to send a signal to our southern border states that we feel this solidarity with them and that the refugee problem is not a problem of a few states in the south, but a problem of europe as a whole. and that's why i voted for the resolution, and that's why i support solidarity between countries
in writing. – while i agree with many of the solutions proposed in the resolution, i am of the opinion that our primary focus must be on the prevention of these humanitarian disasters at their source. this means, within the countries bordering europe, we must do more to support the fight against organised crime and smugglers. we also need a stronger frontex mission better prepared to help individuals in need. we have to attack this at the root and i think that, working together, we can. however, i do not believe that a european asylum system with national quotas is the best solution to the current problems. it will do nothing either to address the humanitarian situation or to address our citizens’ concerns over migration flows. migrants will not stay forever in the country to which they would be assigned unless it was their original goal. they will stay just the minimum time required to gain papers allowing free movement, and will then move on, be it to germany, the uk or sweden. we will be creating a huge european system that does not address any long-term strategy or help to save lives. let us keep looking, and i am sure we will find an answer.
in writing. ‒ i support a complex approach to migration, including the enhanced use of the cfsp and the un to help improve the situation in africa and the middle east. i also support measures addressing the unbearable humanitarian situation. however, i do not believe european solidarity can be achieved through the implementation of a binding quota system. in some member states, due to historical and other reasons, a quota system may backfire and may have the potential to disrupt schengen, the free movement of people and perhaps even the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ given my deep sympathy for refugees heading to europe's shores, i am not entirely comfortable with the approach that many people take, which is to see refugees primarily as a threat to our security. it is hard to imagine that in europe today, an uncertain fate at sea seems a better alternative than staying in one's own country. the fact that they are willing to risk not only their lives but the lives of their entire families to give themselves to the businessmen of smuggling is a testament to the deep suffering they face in their region. these refugees come from destabilized countries and we must realize that we bear our share of responsibility for their situation, see the war in libya. so i prefer to think of this issue in human terms and in context. on the other hand, however, this does not mean that i agree with the commission's introduction of binding quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers among all member states. in this i share the position of the czech government, which believes that this should remain the sovereign right of every country. the czech state knows where its limits are and what it can do to calm the situation and should not be forced into anything. however, the joint motion for a resolution contained different points with which i agree, and i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am fundamentally against any artificial immigration and redistribution of people against the will of the citizens and of the citizens themselves. it is not the solution to invite millions of people who would like to emigrate to europe. in the current system of overcrowded welfare states, europe is not even able to handle such a large number of immigrants. trade with third countries must be liberalised so that their citizens also have the opportunity to enrich themselves and do not suffer because of the barriers, tariffs and unfair subsidies we have imposed.
‒ the solution to the status quo must be comprehensive and not limited to the mediterranean region. eu countries must show solidarity with each other. the european union must be active outside its own territory, in countries at risk and in neighbouring countries from which migrants come. moreover, a distinction must be made between refugees fleeing persecution and seeking to save their lives and illegal migrants. the countries of the union must cooperate in the solution of the situation, either financially or by accepting refugees on a voluntary basis. the creation of a cooperative, balanced system, based more on the principle of voluntariness and the search for the most appropriate form of involvement of states, can be negotiated at national and eu level.
in writing. i supported the resolution voted today on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on eu immigration and asylum policy as a whole, even though it calls for the introduction of binding quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers between member states. i do not support the introduction of binding quotas, i voted against this request, but i believe that the member states should be persuaded to agree to agreements on the distribution of a certain number of refugees, thus helping the countries which are dealing with this problem in the first place. if all member states do not participate in the solution of this problem, the situation with refugees may spiral out of control and other member states may have to deal with problems similar to italy on their own territory. i supported the resolution as a whole, among other things, because it strongly condemns the practices of traffickers and calls for active non-compromising action against them.
in writing. ‒ migration is a significant challenge for europe, which can efficiently be met only over time, with well-focused effort, imagination and solidarity. nobody can disagree that we need measures to address the unbearable humanitarian situation in the mediterranean sea. notwithstanding this, there is an absolute necessity for further complex measures against illegal immigration. this is also the expectation of european citizens. for these reasons i voted against this resolution, which is too narrow, lacks complex measures and goes beyond the council conclusions in particular, i am strongly opposed to a quota system for asylum seekers. while quotas are unacceptable, i am advocating better and closer harmonisation and coordination of the different national systems. it is through greater coordination between member states, supported by the union, that our asylum system in the eu will improve, and through combating illegal trafficking that we will achieve better results. we will achieve no improvement through administrative measures which are easy to overcome.
in writing. ‒ i am categorically against the introduction of mandatory quotas for the redistribution of refugees. this is not the solution to the problem, the eu must focus on fighting illegal human smuggling and helping the regions where the biggest migration flows come from.
madam president, i would like to give the reasons for my vote on the motion for a resolution which i voted in favour of. my vote was motivated by support for access to the eu market for the western balkan countries. in fact, these are unlimited duty-free accesses that are unilateral and autonomous. the main issue here was to extend this status until 2020, but at the same time, and i consider this essential, to allow the eu to limit this declaration of support in the event of systematic and serious violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i think this is very important because it is a possibility to deny these advantages that have been set in favour of these countries if they violate the values of the eu, which i consider to be really not to say sacred, but certainly worthy of protection.
madam president, i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms the tragedy that has occurred in kenya, which was apparently motivated by clear sectarian violence, i.e. the attempt to separate students according to their faith and to unleash violence and violence in order to weaken as much as possible those who professed other religious beliefs. in this connection, i would like to call once again on the moral authorities of the religious movements, whether christianity, islam or, of course, other religious movements, to condemn these manifestations of barbarism and violence by acting together and decisively, and in this way, in my view, to show precisely to young people who are becoming radicalized that this is not the value of their religious beliefs. and i think that this collective activity of the moral authorities of these religious denominations is sorely lacking in our day.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned about the situation of christians in some third world countries, where they are being targeted. i abstained, however, because i think that the eu should not become a military organisation and train soldiers in africa. similar tasks fall under the un.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the european parliament is not relaxing its efforts to defend human rights in general, including freedom of religion. freedom of religion is a fundamental right. sadly, in recent years, the number of people killed simply for their religious beliefs has increased. i therefore fully support the resolution on the persecution of christians worldwide in connection with the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab. this terrorist organization murdered 147 college students, mostly christians, adding more innocents to the list of victims of its barbaric acts. the group has origins in somalia, has links to boko haram and al-qaida, and carries out terrorist operations in kenya because the kenyan government is involved in countering terrorism in somalia through african union action, together with the government of somalia and other governments in the region. he uses the christian and muslim composition of kenyan society to spread fear and hatred.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which condemns the terrorist attacks in kenya. i support the implementation of an eu military training mission in kenya that would help the kenyan authorities to fight terrorism and to prevent the expansion of al-shabaab. i also believe that the eu should strengthen its efforts to ensure peace and stability in the country and the region. this should be done in cooperation with the african union. i voted against all the amendments relating to da’esh or the military intervention in syria because they had nothing to do with this dramatic attack and the situation in kenya. those are two different issues, which need to be addressed separately.
madam president, i do not want to compare the casualties to the lives of the people of kenya at this point. but this cultural barbarism, on the other hand, has much in common, it is the destruction of identity, the destruction of the links with the past, which, according to some radical interpretations of islam, seem to be troubling this religion, and in this sense it is necessary to appeal again, as i supported, of course, the motion for a resolution, so it is necessary to appeal to my colleagues who did not support this resolution, i saw that there were several colleagues here to explain their vote. and at the same time, i would like to call on muslim authorities to comment on this destruction, whether it is in keeping with their religious beliefs. i consider the destruction of cultural monuments, the legacy of past generations, to be barbaric.
it is a sad fact that wars can cause damage of unprecedented and sometimes unimaginable proportions. in syria and iraq, cultural, archaeological and religious sites are being systematically destroyed by isis fighters. their barbaric acts are referred to as 'cultural cleansing' and may even be considered crimes against humanity, especially when these acts are directed against members of a religious or ethnic group. furthermore, isis uses smuggling of objects as a funding tool, making art and cultural objects 'weapons of war'. unesco points out that 'cultural heritage is an important part of the cultural identity of communities, groups and individuals, as well as a part of social cohesion, which means that its deliberate destruction can have adverse consequences for human dignity and human rights'. that is why i support the #unite4heritage campaign launched by unesco director-general irina bokova in march this year, which aims to gather global support for the protection of cultural heritage through the influence of social networks, and other international civil society projects aimed at protecting and reporting on endangered cultural monuments. i hope that, as in the conflict in syria and iraq, the illegal trafficking of cultural property, the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious monuments will soon be brought to an end and the protection of the world's cultural heritage will be strengthened in a way that respects human rights and human dignity.
in writing. i abstained because this resolution, while recognizing the serious problem of destruction of cultural monuments by extremists, does not offer a solution to the situation. it also fails to mention that western states on the one hand support rebels against governments in islamic states such as syria or egypt, but these rebels are the extremists that are often mentioned.
writing. - i am deeply sorry that a number of unique archaeological, religious and cultural monuments in syria and iraq have been recently destroyed by various extremist groups. this is a violation and destruction of cultural diversity. according to unesco, 'cultural heritage is an important part of the cultural identity of communities, groups and individuals, as well as a part of social cohesion', and therefore unesco launched an emergency plan on 1 march 2014 to save syria's cultural heritage. another major problem is the growth of the illicit trade in cultural goods, which is now the third most serious illicit trade after arms and drugs. i fully agree that the fight against this illicit trade in cultural goods needs to be better coordinated and closely cooperated with the aim of promoting awareness-raising, information sharing and the introduction of an adequate legal framework. cultural diplomacy and intercultural dialogue should also be used as a tool for reconciling different communities and restoring destroyed monuments. that's why i voted for the joint resolution today.
in writing. i have repeatedly expressed my utter condemnation of the barbaric acts of members of various terrorist organisations who systematically destroy cultural monuments in syria and iraq. supporting the resolution on the destruction of cultural monuments by isis/da'esh members, for me, means not only this obvious condemnation of the attacks on the cultural identity and history of the inhabitants of all the affected regions, but also an agreement with the intention to improve procedures leading to a reduction in the illegal trade in artistic artefacts, which is used by various terrorist organizations to finance their activities.
in writing. ‒ more than the smuggling of art (which is carried out not only by da’esh ), da’esh destroys cultural sites and thus takes part in real ‘cultural cleansing’. this is not a massacre, not a beheading or a crucifixion of the kind previously perpetrated by da’esh, but it is a form of violence that hurts in a very special way as it attacks the common history and memory of humanity. their reflex is to eradicate everything that does not fit their conception of life. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this resolution, which asks the european union, together with unesco and the international criminal court, to extend the international law category of ‘crimes against humanity’ so that it encompasses acts which wilfully damage or destroy the cultural heritage of mankind on a large scale.
in writing. ‒ i find it completely unacceptable that isis deliberately destroys and plunders cultural, archaeological and religious monuments. first of all, i'm concerned that parts of them are being sold on the black market and thus could be a significant source of funding for isis itself. that is why i supported this resolution, which calls, among other things, on europol and eurojust to try to prevent this trade. i see a great eu added value here.
‒ i support the resolution on the situation in the maldives because it is our duty to promote democratic principles in all parts of the world. in the case of the maldives, we can thus reaffirm our conviction that respect for the rule of law, the right to a fair trial, the independence of the judiciary or a credible political process or the freedom of the press are prerequisites for the development of any society. if we have information that the number of islamic radicals is also growing in the maldives, surely we can find a connection between this phenomenon and the unsatisfactory political situation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution calling on all parties in the maldives to avoid any action that could lead to an increase in authoritarianism in the country, and to respect democracy and the rule of law. the maldives need an open political process, which involves all the various democratic forces and respects democracy and the rule of law. a democracy cannot tolerate the intimidation of political opponents or political interference in the judicial system. the resolution also calls for an immediate end to all violence against peaceful demonstrators, critical media sources and civil society, and for the perpetrators of violent attacks to be brought to justice.
in writing. it must be admitted that albania has made impressive progress in recent years on its path to eu membership, gaining candidate country status in june 2014. albania also plays a key role in strengthening stability in the region and its political will to improve relations with serbia and its overall commitment to work towards good neighbourly relations that will lead to even greater stabilisation of the whole region should also be appreciated. however, it is more than obvious that certain problems persist in the country, i can only mention the need for judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime as well as the effective functioning of the state administration. our job is not just to criticize this country. even with all the problems that remain, i believe it is our duty to provide albania with all the support and assistance that we can. dialogue and mutually constructive cooperation should play a crucial role in this regard. i abstained from voting on the report today because i cannot consider the report as being balanced overall.
in writing. ‒ i find this report very positive, especially when i consider that albania shares the same foreign policy vision, which is fully in line with the eu's position. i also very much appreciate the will to deepen the stability of relations with serbia. i believe that albania will continue in this right direction and become one of the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the annual report on the european investment bank emphasises the importance of access to funding for smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. in addition, i welcome the important articles on transparency, especially when dealing with financial intermediaries in third countries. while this report is perhaps too long-winded, it encompasses a number of important priorities which the eib should use as guidelines in the future.
‒ competitiveness is not created by a greater redistribution of public money. on the contrary, the more taxpayers' money is collected and redistributed, the more the competitiveness of the countries concerned and of europe as a whole is reduced. the solution to the crisis is to create a climate for business and employment, not more subsidies and government investment.
in writing. ‒ access to funding for smes is essential for the european economy and this is clearly underlined in this annual report. i also welcome the emphasis on the need for transparency. for these reasons, i supported and voted in favour of this report on the european investment bank.
in writing. the theme of this year's expo 2015 in milan is 'food for the planet, energy for life'. the focus of the exhibition is to encourage discussion on improving food production and distribution, addressing food waste, and finding solutions to other pressing issues such as malnutrition and malnutrition. it should be borne in mind that food shortages are also affecting the eu, where 79 million people still live below the poverty line and 24.8% of the population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this number has been steadily increasing over the years. i see the theme of expo as a good opportunity to reflect and discuss different approaches to tackling the paradoxes of a globalised world where on the one hand 870 million people suffer from malnutrition and hunger and on the other hand approximately 2.8 million people die from health problems related to malnutrition, obesity and overweight. alarmingly, the commission estimates that worldwide, 30 percent of food is lost or wasted each year. as it is obvious that there is a clear need to at least discuss these problems and to seek solutions to them without delay, and as i consider expo to be the appropriate forum for such discussion, i voted in favour of the draft text in today's vote.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in nigeria because i believe that the european parliament must also make a clear statement on the current situation and condemn the violence of the terrorist organisation boko haram, which has pledged allegiance to the so-called islamic state and which is murdering thousands of people in the northern parts of nigeria, not only christians but also all others who oppose their extreme inhuman ideology of violence and hatred and the attempt to create a state based on sharia law in the north of nigeria. parliament also expressed its support for the democratically elected authorities of nigeria and called on them to combat all forms of discrimination, to continue building a democratic society and to prevent widespread corruption, which, among other things, prevents the effective use of the armed forces against terrorist organisations. the european parliament also rightly calls for the use of all forms of international development assistance to improve the living conditions in the less developed regions of nigeria and cooperation between the states of the region.
in writing. ‒ boko haram’s violence has led to more than 22 000 deaths since 2009. moreover, according to the un, the violence in borno, yobe and adamawa states has displaced 1.5 million people, including 800 000 children, and more than 3 million people have been affected by the insurgency. in this context of extreme violence and instability, i supported the resolution condemning the wave of violent acts committed by boko haram against civilian, government and military targets in nigeria. the resolution is also a reminder that everything must be done to find and free the more than 200 girls still missing after they were abducted by boko haram from their school in chibok, as well as all the persons abducted since then. by supporting this resolution, i urge the nigerian authorities to do their utmost to end the violence and tackle the root causes of the terrorism, including corruption, and i call on nigeria’s neighbours and the international community to cooperate to fight against boko haram.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, we are here today to speak on behalf of nadia savchenko, a woman who served in the military of her country and as a pilot, she was guilty of nothing less than defending the territorial integrity of ukraine. her being taken abroad and imprisoned in russia is an unprecedented violation of international law. they have removed her from the territory of the sovereign state of ukraine, whose borders are and should be inviolable, and they do not respect her parliamentary immunity and her membership of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. they're forcing her to admit she entered russia illegally alone, and offering her a pardon in exchange for that forced confession. they're putting pressure on her with forced psychiatric treatment, which is still used as a tool of state power as it was in the dark days of stalinism. this terrorist kidnapping and torture of a foreign national coupled with the coercion of a false confession in court deserves the most severe condemnation and consequences. international law and human rights are inviolable principles of our civilization and russia must be forced to respect them. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think your colleague has more information than i do. we are here today for nadia savchenko, not for hungary.
mr. chairman, if the complex post-conflict situation in syria is one of the biggest humanitarian disasters of our time, the situation in the yarmouk camp only illustrates it. anyone who was interested in the situation or even visited the camp was a witness. we have been watching helplessly for four years the situation in syria in the civil war and i think our only task or goal is to get the un relief and works agency to get our maximum financial, diplomatic and political support. the eu must be one of the main pillars of humanitarian aid throughout the region. not only because of the situation in the yarmouk camp, but also because it should be one of the means to prevent migration in the whole area.
mr president, my group strongly supports algeria and its citizens on their path to democracy. and i personally want the eu to strengthen its cooperation with algeria not only in the economic field and in the fight against terrorism, but also in the civil field. it is therefore essential that the internal political situation in algeria remains stable in the future, so that the protection of human rights and democratic values can be improved. in my view, a close partnership between the government and civil society, which should aim to ensure the general security of citizens, respect for human rights, especially in the context of regional unrest, will also make a clear contribution to this. here i see closer cooperation and integration into the maghreb group as essential. on behalf of the european people's party, i would also like to call on the algerian authorities to be more open to cooperation with the un in the field of human rights. and i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments tabled by the european people's party. i think they complement the text and they make a very important contribution to the maintenance of friendly relations with algeria.
, on behalf of the epp group. – mr president, it was said quite clearly by the rapporteur, ms cora van nieuwenhuizen, and by commissioner lord hill that the situation in the past was bad and could have far-reaching consequences for the credibility of the financial market and stability of the economy. we should say here that many steps were taken in order to make the financial indices that are of vital importance for financial markets more robust. now we are debating what is probably the last step in the creation of a safer environment that will bring credible and robust financial industries: legislation that is focused on administration of benchmarks and the creation of the indices. as was said by the rapporteur, the proposal was put together quite some time ago and unfortunately it was not approved by the previous parliament. the reasons were also quite technical. the commission opted for a very wide and very deep proposal which drives concern for the sustainability of this regulation, especially for small indices. there were many questions concerning the consistency of this regulation with the international environment, which went rather towards the recommendation issued by iosco, and obviously it created problems with the third-country regime. i am very happy that i could work on the legislation with the rapporteur because she opted for a balanced approach, focusing on better proportionality between the regulation of important – the most important – indices by allowing transparency to be used for improving the quality of the other indices. at the same time, we improved too the situation vis-à-vis the third-country regime and found the right balance between the responsibility of national supervisors and the responsibility of esma. i feel we have a very good proposal in front of us. i hope that parliament will give a strong mandate for us to negotiate in trilogue as there is a difference between the opinions of parliament and the commission, and that we will end up with a very good regulation that will fulfil all expectations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. on the one hand, there is no general societal demand for this sector to grow, especially in recent times, and therefore access to it is mainly restrictive, coupled with the need to cover the negative externalities associated with the detrimental impact on the health of the population. on the other hand, we attribute a certain legitimacy to this sector and, once the conditions of the controlled restriction have been met, we expect it to respect the usual market rules, in particular free competition. moreover, the sector is a major source of revenue for the public finances. it is not easy to bring these three perspectives together in a single regulatory framework. at present, regulatory rules have a certain established form which corresponds in principle to the current social need. however, they are not without error and certain parametric changes are necessary to enhance their functionality. the three main changes are: first, the establishment of a fair and transparent way of distributing the funds raised by fines levied on key tobacco producers. second, to increase the transparency and consistency of the agreements concluded between the commission and the four main producers, both in terms of content and duration. it is legitimate to ask whether these four agreements have a real capacity to minimise the problem and why they have different expiry dates. there should also be awareness of their basic points. so we're asking you, commissioner, to be open. thirdly, the unfair trade practices in cigarettes relate to other phenomena which are not affected by the agreements at all and which, for some member states, constitute a fundamental disruption of the market, namely the influx of cigarettes, usually of low quality, sold outside official markets and imported from third countries, particularly in the peripheral border regions of the european union. restrictions on these transactions are equally necessary, as their effects may be even more disastrous than in previous cases. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. speaker, as you rightly said, the policy is not adequate at this point, and i mentioned that parametric changes are needed. i have mentioned only three that i think are important. but of course, we could talk more about these changes if we had more than two minutes. so i'm all for the changes being definitely included in the next policy.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that smoking is without doubt one of the most serious health risks to europeans. any steps we can take to reduce this danger are therefore welcome. this also applies to the fight against illicit trade in cigarettes and tobacco. as a result, we not only lose billions of euros in customs duties and taxes every year, but we also open the door to other negative social phenomena. in some member states, cheap illegal cigarettes are leading to a higher dependence of young people on tobacco. and it's the young people we should be protecting the most. it is clear that the profits from the illicit trade in cigarettes also help to finance the activities of groups involved in organized crime. so there is no doubt that the best way to deal with this serious problem is to find it. the european parliament therefore welcomed the conclusion of the current agreements in 2004. i am afraid that we cannot be so positive about the current lax approach and the european commission's approach. unfortunately, at the moment, the relevant information is not available, which i believe is very important for the future of these agreements and which the european parliament must very urgently demand. first of all, we still do not know whether the agreements have fulfilled the expectations we had in them all those years ago. although the new negotiations with the tobacco companies started a year ago, the commission has so far been unable to provide us with any information on how the situation will look from the middle of next year, when the existing contracts expire. in fact, we don't even know if working with the tobacco companies is the right way to go. in my view, this approach by the european commission is not the way to convince members and the public that it is the best way to fight illegal trade.
mr president, i listened with interest to what the vice-president of the commission said and i would like to say that i have always supported low and simple taxes. the example of e-books that we're debating here today clearly shows that if the tax system is complex and has a whole bunch of exceptions, then there are interpretation problems that come with it. when justice and the court remove these problems, absurd situations often occur. an example is the case of the relationship between printed books and electronic books, where different media, different information carriers are taxed differently. i would like you, mr vice-president of the commission, to see this case as an example of how exemptions and a complex tax system do not work. if you're talking about the commission preparing a definitive vat system, you should learn from this case. because the problem, in my opinion, is not the decision of the court of justice of the european union. i read the verdict, and the verdict is correct in my opinion. the problem is the directive, which is vague and unclear about the exceptions. so we should talk about if exceptions are to be defined, and if they are, then to the smallest extent possible. i'm asking you to fix the problem, and like my colleagues, i'm calling for support for the digital market. i am convinced that the absurd situation where only a different medium brings in double vat on books, printed books on the one hand and electronic books on the other, should have been eliminated long ago. so please remove it in the interest of developing a digital single market.
mr president, one of the key priorities of the commission is the digital single market strategy. the vat on e—books, i think, is an excellent example where we can show that we are committed to this agenda and that we are able to deliver without delay to our citizens. i do not see any reason why i should pay twice as much in taxes on e—books than on books in their physical form. the rise in the price of e—books was never intended. it was an unforeseen consequence, an error, and now is the time to fix it. we all speak about the urgency of this topic. i am looking forward to your vat proposal in 2016, but meanwhile here is one suggestion: why do you not propose an urgent single sentence amendment to the 2006 vat directive allowing digital books, newspapers and magazines the same reductions already allowed for their physical counterparts? it would only require three words to be added to the annex to fix it. the words are: ‘physical or digital’. let us solve this in the simplest and quickest way possible. let us make this an example where europe sees an error and fixes it; where europe embraces our digital future.
mr president, i would like to point out that what we are discussing here is actually two things. one is the rate of value added tax and the other is the way in which these taxes are collected. i think we can all agree that if there is a single market for services in the european union, then building this digital market also requires tax efficiency. business owners don't like their tax rules changing too often, but in this case, it seems that change is in order. it is logical that the value added tax, which is the taxation of consumption, should be paid in the state where the service is consumed. the czech republic has responded responsibly to this directive and has already established one place, one of the regional financial authorities, where 317 entities are already registered. i think the commissioner should have an overview of how registration proceeds in other countries as well. as far as the rate is concerned, the commission should certainly follow the member states and what they are saying here. the european parliament is clearly demanding a reduced rate on books and comparable conditions.
mr president, since november last year, the new voting system in the council has been in force under the treaty of lisbon. in the czech republic, i was one of the most vocal opponents of the lisbon treaty. i asked at the time how it was possible that the size of the german vote was doubling and the size of the czech vote was halving. the politicians who were defending the new voting system at the time told me that the european union almost never voted "hard" and that they always sought agreement. how's it going today? the european commission is proposing a plan to redistribute refugees among member states, and the czech republic, which opposes the redistribution of people, can easily be overruled. what comes out of the european union today is nothing but a dictate, and that in such an incredible thing as dividing people. i therefore call on the czech government to bring an action against the european union for breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
mr. chairman, the world celebrates may 15th as international family day and the second sunday of may as mother's day. i deliberately remember them together because women and mothers are the heart of the family. often sacrificing their careers for the lives of their children, many women also try to combine their careers with childcare. sadly, women in the european union have on average 39% lower pensions and 15% lower salaries than men. one of the main reasons is that they are devoted to the care of children. i'm here today to thank and encourage all of these moms. motherhood is a great sacrifice, but above all, a great privilege. this is so even though today's society is primarily concerned with material values. children are our joy and our future. those who are aware of this have perspective. i would like to see the european union's policy also clearly acknowledging motherhood and fatherhood. there is a lot of talk today about gender mainstreaming and i think that family mainstreaming should also become a permanent part of the impact assessment to make europe a favourable ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
in writing. although parliament is currently discussing the revision of eu veterinary legislation, the problem of antimicrobial resistance is not given sufficient attention in the commission's proposals. this own-initiative report shows that parliament intends to go into this area in much greater detail. i welcome the initiatives and actions of member states, animal health professionals and animal owners aimed at the responsible administration of antibiotics and the limited use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. it is essential to promote the responsible use of all antimicrobials in veterinary medicine, with particular attention being paid to those substances that are of critical importance in human medicine, such as third and fourth generation fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins. there is a need to develop and implement national strategies or action plans to combat antimicrobial resistance. the implementation of national guidelines on antimicrobial treatment of animals should ensure the responsible use of antimicrobials based on specific recommendations and conditions in the member states concerned and should allow for sufficient flexibility. the application of preventive animal health policies aimed at improving the disease status and reducing the need to use antimicrobials in livestock farming is also key. it is also necessary to define the obligations of veterinarians with regard to health care and decision-making on the use of antimicrobials and to provide continuing training for animal health professionals and animal owners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the digital single market strategy is a good text, it is an ambitious text, but it could have been even better. it seems that it is already a compromise text in some parts and has been weakened a little bit since your previous statements, commissioner. the action plan includes far more reviews and initiatives than new legislative proposals and new ideas, such as making privacy by design into eu law, or finally introducing a single eu telecoms operator. it should do even more to create a level playing field for all european businesses, especially smes, which are limited by the amazons and ebays of the world and have to pay a lot to sell beyond our national borders. that said, the alde group welcomes it and also welcomes the action plan. it does include many items that are vital to us – removing geo—blocking, reforming the parcel delivery system in europe and supporting 24-hour e—government. but we call on the commission to deliver on everything in the action plan and to do so quickly. speed is of the essence. any delays will only give time for the member states to come up with excuses to block this strategy. any delays will only push us further behind the us and others. any delays will only further harm our attempts to build trust among businesses and consumers in the digital single market. my group has a slogan: ‘think digital by default’. i am glad that the commission has now started to do just that. the strategy is a good opening act, but let it not be the final one.
mr president, let me begin by quoting a great statesman: "if it moves, tax it". if it's still moving, start regulating it. when it stops moving, start subsidizing it. that's how us president ronald reagan characterized the approach of the government, and it seems to me that's exactly the approach of the european union when it comes to the digital market and the internet. the internet is a free and dynamic environment, and it seems to me that you are trying to ruin it. the internet is making life easier for millions of people and opening up business opportunities. it's a growing market, one great innovation after another. why is that? because your regulatory appetites haven't fully penetrated this market yet. all right, please, just leave it.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the digital single market has undeniably huge potential to support economic growth and job creation in the european union. i think we can all agree on that. you need to appreciate the effort you're putting in. i see positive steps in the strategy presented, but others would certainly be worth working on. overall, i think we could do even more for businesses and citizens in the digital single market. the strategy rightly emphasises the removal of barriers and restrictive regulations. but our experience tells us we should remain cautious. of course, it will depend on the specific proposals you submit later. i would like to highlight a fundamental problem that we are encountering repeatedly, which is the lack of broadband infrastructure, which is crucial for further development.
in writing. the ambition of the strategy presented is to prepare europe for the expected digital future. as regards the creation of a digital single market, i welcome the proposed measures. electronic purchasing must be based on clear and binding rules that facilitate the choice of services and goods for consumers. in order to increase confidence in cross-border trade, it is necessary to simplify and reduce the cost of delivery, but also to facilitate the possibility of complaints and to ensure the enforceability of rights. it is high time to end the persistent discrimination based on nationality, not only in the case of so-called geo-blocking, but in general in access to goods and services. i have been warning the commission about this for a long time. but the digitisation of society is far from being about the internal market alone. we hear about hundreds of thousands of new jobs. but do we know how many will die? how will the status of workers change? how can we prevent exclusion or discrimination against those for whom the digital environment is too complex? the strategy does not provide much of an answer to these questions, which are important to the social democrats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as this is only a codification of the existing agreements and therefore does not change the substance.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the centralist regulation of these matters. if tv companies feel that software or equipment is being tampered with, they cannot enforce product regulation, but they should go to court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the new benchmarks regulation will improve the functioning and governance of benchmarks used in the eu and ensure they are not subject to manipulation. the eu had to make sure no scandals over the manipulation of benchmarks, like libor and euribor, could ever happen again. benchmarks affect all eu citizens. they define what citizens pay at the petrol station and the value of their pension. it was thus of outmost importance for the european parliament to take the appropriate steps to address this issue. the new rules have strong requirements on how an index must be calculated, avert any possible conflict of interest and introduce prudential supervision.
in writing. ‒ benchmarking is a way or measure of monitoring developments in financial markets. even if these standards are well known and widely used, it does not mean that they are transparent and secure. that is why i voted to tighten up the rules contained in my colleague, mrs cory van nieuwenhuizen's report. it is not possible to continue to deceive citizens into believing that indexed securities provide neutral and reliable information, while they can easily be manipulated by a few large players in the financial market. this has been seen in recent years, for example, when banks have formed illegal cartels to influence the interest rates at which they lend to each other on the european and london interbank markets. this affected other interest rates used, for example, in the consumer mortgage and savings banking products offered. i am therefore very pleased that there will be stricter regulation, in particular for benchmarks with critical values, which will be supervised by the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which aims at putting an end to conflicts of interest and manipulation in the benchmark process for financial instruments and contracts by setting up a regulatory framework for the indices used. over the last years we have witnessed many cases where we could doubt the integrity and accuracy of certain indices; even a doubt can undermine market confidence and distort the real economy. for this reason, the report sets four objectives as regards the benchmark process: improve governance and controls; improve the quality of the input data; ensure that contributors to the process are subjected to adequate controls; and assure consumers and investors protection. i am satisfied that the report maintains a broad scope of actions and addresses both critical, non-critical and commodity benchmarks, without denying their specificities.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sends a strong message to eu member states and the commission on the leading role the eu should play in the upcoming third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa. it is crucial that eu countries respect their official development assistance (oda) target of 0.7% of national income and set timetables for reaching it by 2020. i believe it is important not only to provide financial aid but also to create an environment in developing countries which stimulates more responsible, transparent and accountable investment. let us not forget that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty. the eu’s development aid focuses both on helping those in immediate need and on increasing the sustainability of the countries in question through capacity—building projects.
in writing. ‒ i don't agree with the traditional notion that development aid will save poor countries. it has worked for decades and is only a short-term relief that does nothing to solve the overall problem. on the other hand, there is the hypocrisy of the eu, which does not allow poor countries to trade freely with europe and get the opportunity to become rich too.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the vote has shown that the european parliament is not shirking its responsibility towards the international community, and more specifically developing countries. i supported this resolution because the forthcoming addis ababa conference calls for a firm position of the european union and its member states. in particular, they need to be reminded of the objectives to which they committed themselves in 2005 in the context of official development assistance, but which are currently being met by only four member states. without development aid, we will not be able to find solutions to problems such as poverty, climate change, terrorism and also the very current migratory pressures. development aid cannot therefore be disregarded. on the contrary, it must become more efficient and we must ensure that it is coordinated as best as possible. if we fail to secure the necessary funding and negotiate a new framework for development goals, we will never be able to stop thousands of refugees risking their own lives to reach europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution urging the eu and the member states to respect their commitments in the development sector. today, the eu is the world’s largest donor of official development aid. this gives responsibility for the eu in the negotiations to be held at the third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa. with this resolution, the european parliament has sent a strong signal and demonstrated its total and full involvement in development policy across the world.
in writing. eight to 12 per cent of patients admitted to healthcare facilities across the eu each year will have an incident directly related to the care they receive. however, half of these incidents can be prevented successfully in advance. the most common dangers to patients include hospital infections, reactions to medications that are not well-designed or prescribed, and complications during or after surgery. another major problem is the worldwide increase in the number of bacteria resistant to both common and broad-spectrum antibiotics, which is reflected in the increase in so-called hospital-acquired infections. the report by mr pedicini, which i voted for today (19 may 2015), is based on the premise that the right of the patient not to be harmed or threatened with harm by a medical procedure should be at the heart of the quality of medical care provided. the report also welcomes the latest measures put in place by member states, in particular the progress made in developing strategies to improve patient safety. however, what is important in my view is that the text presented strongly criticises the uneven progress made by the member states in improving patient safety, and in particular their apparent slowdown in implementing the recommendations given due to financial constraints resulting from budget cuts made in recent years. the report expresses deep concern that these cost-saving measures have led to a reduction in both the quality and quantity of cleaning and hygiene personnel in health facilities.
in writing. ‒ i am afraid that such proposals can only bring more bureaucracy to healthcare facilities, which are already overburdened with administration. i also strongly disagree with the call to remove the influence of politicians on health care. politicians are representatives of the people, and you can't take away voters' control over how health care is organized.
in writing. i supported a resolution that deals with various aspects of the safety of health care. this is a serious issue, closely linked to working conditions in healthcare in the context of its financing, to the education of healthcare professionals, to the proper information of patients and the public about the various risks. the report also addresses the responsibilities and role of pharmaceutical companies in the healthcare system. the report covers the important issue of antimicrobial resistance, its causes and prevention measures. the available antibiotics must be used with caution and care. patient safety must be clearly the first priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which tackles a growing and concerning healthcare challenge for europe: antimicrobial resistance. in this respect, i think we need to increase research and development on new antimicrobials to ensure the eu can provide an appropriate and timely response to this issue. it is also extremely important to have precise data on the use of animal microbials, and therefore i support the provision on the creation of a eu database on the matter. as regards the sales of antibiotics, i support the call to de-link it from the reward paid for a new antibiotic: we need to look for the right balance between a sufficient return on investment for the producing company and the purchaser having full control over the volumes he buys. eventually the report calls on member states to provide up-to-date trainings of healthcare professionals on the use of antibiotics for both human and veterinary medicine.
in writing. in my view, this proposal is based on the need to ensure first and foremost the safety of the patient, so that he does not suffer any harm to his health as a result of the health care, and is essential for a quality health care system. the alarming fact is that patient safety is often compromised by cost-saving measures that have a negative impact on the quality of care, which in my view is truly unacceptable. however, there are problems with alerting to adverse events and collecting similar data. for the reasons stated above, i am a strong advocate of improving the healthcare system, focusing on the safety and well-being of patients.
in writing. smes are very important for so-called green growth (sustainable economic growth). they are the main drivers of green innovation and key players in the emerging greener industry. in the eu, they represent 98% of enterprises and provide more than two thirds of jobs. in july 2014, the commission published its green action plan for smes and the report we voted on yesterday (19 may 2015) was, at its core, an initiative by the commission to encourage smes to develop the benefits of green growth, welcoming and generally supporting the concept of a circular waste economy. however, smes face additional challenges in relation to this green growth, such as complex access to finance, complicated r&d, unnecessary bureaucratic burdens or a lack of skilled labour, etc. in my view, both the action plan and the report itself do not adequately reflect these problems. that is why our group has tabled a number of amendments aimed at addressing these problems. unfortunately, most of our proposals were not accepted. we have tried to resolve this situation at least by proposing to split the votes on some controversial provisions, such as the part on ttip, capital, taxation and the eu's single patent. we were not satisfied with that either, so i had to abstain.
in writing. - i'm against the state interfering in the business of companies. the state should not determine which business is better or worse and on that basis help one at the expense of the other. i am generally against any selective incentives for selected companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that efforts to increase access to 'green innovation' funding for smes should be supported. existing eu programmes such as cosme and horizon 2020 do not contribute sufficiently to green innovation and the 'circular economy', although i believe these areas are a societal priority. therefore, funding from those programmes should be more focused on, for example, supporting financing for product design and performance improvements. i also consider it necessary to find a rapid and lasting solution to the exceptional accumulation of outstanding payments from the european structural and investment funds for the past programming period, so that smes as project partners are not discouraged from participating in new programmes and projects due to late payments.
in writing. ‒ more than 98% of european enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added. the green growth sector offers significant economic and environmental benefits to smes in the eu and can be expected to flourish in the coming years. i believe that the green economy has enormous potential, but smes that want to take this promising path face a number of challenges, especially in the areas of financing (credit), research and development (limited access to knowledge networks), acquiring the necessary knowledge or in connection with the existing regulatory framework. we know that the long-term pain for entrepreneurs is too complicated regulation, and that it affects even more acutely the proponents of innovative approaches. however, good legislation cannot be prepared without a detailed knowledge of the regulated environment, and parliament therefore called on the member states and the commission to base their new proposals on specific market failures or problems that the regulation is intended to address. i am strongly in favour of governments directing far more support to greening the economy and a global focus on promoting advanced, cost-effective technologies. smes are their most important partners in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets up a green action plan for smes. objectives of green growth and circular economy must be part of the strategy of job creation and economic growth and, in this respect, smes are on the frontline and must not be left behind. the transition to a green economy can only be beneficial to smes if their specificities are acknowledged and the right incentives provided. the report pursues four objectives that i find legitimate: improve ressource efficiency of smes, support green entrepreneurship, exploit the opportunities of green value chains and facilitate market access for green smes. i also fully support the provisions on helping start-ups to move towards green growth and on ensuring no administrative burden is added.
‒ the starting point for my support of this initiative is that smes are an important part of the european economy and job creation. the commission's green sme action plan is a welcome initiative, providing a further stimulus for the beneficial development of green growth. sharing and disseminating knowledge is a key prerequisite for developing green growth opportunities. in my opinion, the most important factor is inter-industry cooperation, the creation of informal networks, which are the main sources of information in this respect, from technologies to suppliers to state aid programmes and other aspects. clearly, green growth has considerable potential.
in writing. i am very concerned about the security situation in the eu and its eastern and southern neighbours. these territories are becoming less stable due to the large number of migrants and the resulting security challenges. the conflict in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, together with the rise of the islamic state, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa, are undoubtedly directly threatening the security of the eu's borders and thus of european citizens themselves. it is necessary for the eu and its member states to take responsibility for their own security and defence. i would like to draw attention to the need to strengthen the common security and defence policy and to make capacity building more effective and intensive. i call on the high representative, federica mogherini, to take a leading role in developing the drive for further progress in the csdp. in this respect, i would greatly appreciate greater efforts to establish effective links between eu institutions and agencies in the field of internal security, such as frontex, europol, enisa.
mr president, i would like to thank all of those involved on parliament’s side for their strong stand during the trilogue negotiation. for me, this directive underlines the importance of parliament in the legislative process. the idea of a public register of ultimate ownership, which is key in this regulation, came from parliament and we strongly defended it throughout the trilogue. the agreement we reached last december reflects the legitimate public demand for more transparency and marks a significant step forward in the fight against money laundering. however, there is still room for improvement when it comes to the accessibility of the public register, but the directive leaves the door open for those member states which are ready to move forward and widely interpret the notion of legitimate interests. after parliament’s vote, it will be time for member states to take responsibility and swiftly and fully implement the new eu anti-money laundering and transfer of fund rules. i strongly encourage them to use the available flexibility to provide unrestricted public access to public registers with access to beneficiary ownership information to companies and trusts.
mr president, commissioner, honourable rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, first of all, let me thank you for the excellent work you have done on this directive. i am pleased and proud that it is the czech commissioner who has brought us this key document, which is taking europe forward in the fight against illicit trade and money laundering. the amount that has been spent and is being estimated in relation to money laundering is very alarming. but more important, none of us can say with certainty where such money comes from, where it goes, or who it is for. i therefore consider it essential that such transactions be monitored carefully and in the long term, but also in a transparent manner. i am also a supporter of the cashless economy and, unlike mrs von storch, i believe that the cashless economy can make a significant contribution to europe's progress in the fight against money laundering. there's one thing i'd like to mention at the end that no one here has mentioned. these illegal activities are characterised by their international scope, rapid development and unpredictable direction. we must not therefore be satisfied with merely introducing measures at european union level, which is just the beginning, but must strive to ensure close links and cooperation between all our partners.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, it is a pity that there are so few of us here on such a serious subject, but i hope that those who do not participate are not insolvent. and now seriously, i consider the revision of the regulations governing bankruptcy proceedings to be a significant step towards the modernisation of insolvency law. i believe that we should in particular increase the protection of employees who are most affected by the bankruptcy of their employer. unfortunately, the risk of company bankruptcy is high today, for example in the czech republic the number of insolvency applications has increased from 5 300 to more than 35 000 per year over the last six years. so we need a broader discussion about how to protect companies from going bankrupt. another problem i see is so-called insolvency tourism and the filing of harassing insolvency petitions to eliminate competition. companies that do not actually owe anyone anything are then put on the insolvency register. in our country, according to statistics, one in ten companies has encountered such practices. i don't have to tell you that it's bad for the company involved. that's why i support the modernisation of bankruptcy law.
mr president, i am fortunate to come from the czech republic, a country that has one of the longest maternity leave periods, 28 weeks, and gives mothers 70% of their previous salary. but i know that the european union is different, and that is why i support the ambition to have a common minimum standard. it is also because we have a common european area open to the movement of people and services, and with that comes the need for comparable conditions. in any case, good care for mothers and support for families with children is in the interest of the member states and the european union as a whole. it's our joint investment in the future. i hope that the new measures of the european commission will really support mothers in their parenting and professional roles, and i wish the commissioner to succeed in fulfilling these ambitions.
the question posed by the blue card. dear mrs. sargentini, before you give a fiery speech about the reception of refugees from the communist era, why don't you find out something about how the czech republic is accepting refugees from ukraine today. did you know that the czech republic is the country with the third largest number of refugees from ukraine? have you ever looked up this information? have you ever been to a refugee camp in the czech republic? you see the situation? please correct your information before you criticize anyone here.
mr. president, the commission has decided to use article 78 (3) to propose quotas and redistribution of refugees. but the article doesn't mention quotas at all. you just invented a new jurisdiction. that article talks about the possibility of helping a member state in need, that could mean financial aid, for example, but there is absolutely nothing about quotas. i consider this to be a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states, and i ask myself: how could you even think of talking about the transport of people in europe again? you're talking about temporary relocation of refugees. we in the czech republic have had a difficult experience with the term 'temporary'. the temporary fraternal assistance of the soviet army in 1968 lasted for twenty years.
mr president, i would like to say that the biggest mistake in this debate is that we equate solidarity with quotas. the czech republic has a longstanding solidarity with the european union and other countries. we really work systematically and allow, for example, ukrainian students to study at czech universities. the immigration system, commissioner, needs to be more sophisticated. it must not be clearly focused on the southern states. i know that the situation is very urgent among the southern states, but it may be equally urgent in eastern europe. look at the situation in ukraine, there's a real threat of another war. there are 850,000 people who are homeless, and that needs to be addressed as well. i would urge you, commissioner, to really focus your attention on eastern europe, which the czech republic or poland are dealing with intensively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 calendar of plenary sittings in strasbourg and brussels, adapting parliament’s calendar to the legislative agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this is only an amendment to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union and does not change the substance of the documents.
in writing. ‒ following the recent terrorist attacks in paris, brussels and copenhagen, it was crucial that the european union took decisive action against anti money laundering and terrorist financing. i believe this new directive is part of the answer. it will facilitate the work of financial intelligence units from different member states to identify and follow suspicious transfers of money, facilitate the exchange of information and ensure full traceability of funds transfers within, to, and from the eu. moreover, these new rules reflect the legitimate public demand for increased transparency in this field. it will for the first time oblige eu member states to keep central registers of information on the ultimate ‘beneficial’ owners of corporate and other legal entities, as well as trusts, a strong demand from the european parliament. there is still room for improvement when it comes to the accessibility of the public register, but the directive leaves the door open to those member states which are ready, to move forward. i strongly encourage them to use the available flexibility to provide unrestricted public registers with access to beneficial ownership information for companies and trusts.
in writing. i welcome the final form of the directive, which is a compromise between the ep and the council, retaining most of the elements put forward by the ep at first reading. all companies registered in eu member states will thus be required to provide information on their owners, down to the level of natural persons. this information will be collected in a mandatory central register of beneficial owners, which will be publicly accessible. i consider this an important step towards greater transparency of financial flows and a reduction in tax evasion. i believe that this will also be an impulse for the czech government to adopt legislation leading to the disclosure of the owners of all public limited companies.
‒ according to the latest statistics, money laundering accounts for up to 2 3% of the world's gross domestic product per year. these percentages clearly indicate that this is a global problem that needs to be addressed urgently. especially at a time when the economic crisis is not just affecting europe. that is why i supported the anti-money laundering directive. i am very pleased that my political group has succeeded in proposing the creation of central registers at member state level which will enable the public to find out who the real owners of large companies and other corporate entities are. the directive thus represents a further step both towards increased transparency and public scrutiny and a further victory in the fight against tax evasion. i firmly believe that the directive will not only be an effective deterrent to terrorist financing, but also a solution to the problem of conflict of interest among politically active persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which introduces the idea of a public register of ultimate ownership. this new directive, if correctly implemented, will increase and improve the fight against money laundering.
in writing. i supported the compromise agreement between the ep and the council, which will provide financial intelligence units and law enforcement agencies with more information to enable better traceability of payments. the resulting format also ensures that the eu legal framework will continue to be fully in line with international standards. it is useful to provide for an obligation for payment service providers to transmit information not only on the payer but also on the payee throughout the payment chain for the purposes of preventing, investigating and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. the uniform implementation of the new rules throughout the european union should ensure that there is no distinction between cases involving national payments within a member state and cross-border payments between member states. at the same time, all such mechanisms needed today must be fully clear and transparent in terms of how information is used and defended against misuse.
in writing. on 19 may 2015, at the plenary session in strasbourg, we discussed an important revision of the regulation governing insolvency proceedings. i must say at the outset that i welcome the commission's efforts to modernise insolvency law, not only in the light of the scandalous abuse of this right in the czech republic. i believe that the proposal presented can lead to a reduction in the notorious 'insolvency tourism' and to the modernisation of the resolution of so-called crossborder insolvency cases which is now necessary. however, despite my support for this document, i still see a number of shortcomings. in my view, the planned revision should in particular increase the protection of those most at risk, namely employees affected by the possible bankruptcy of their company. in the czech republic, company insolvencies are now commonplace, with the number of proceedings opened having increased almost sevenfold in the last six years alone. we need not only a broader discussion on how to protect companies from bankruptcy, but also, especially in the context of the situation in the czech republic, a discussion on how to prevent their frequent and unregulated abuse in the context of competition between entrepreneurs. one of the realistic ways i would see, for example, is to deprive creditors of the possibility to file so-called creditor insolvency applications. it is still absolutely unacceptable that almost one in ten companies in the czech republic have been exposed to similar practices, according to the available data.
in writing. i consider the revision of the insolvency regulation to be an important step towards modernising insolvency law. i believe that there is a particular need to increase the protection of employees, who are most affected by the eventual bankruptcy of their employer. unfortunately, the risk of companies going bankrupt is high today, for example in the czech republic the number of insolvency applications has increased from 5 300 to more than 35 000 cases per year in the last 6 years. so we need a broader discussion about how to protect companies from going bankrupt. another problem i see is so-called insolvency tourism and the filing of harassing insolvency petitions in order to eliminate competition. this means that companies that do not actually owe anyone anything can be put on the insolvency register. according to statistics, one in ten companies in the czech republic has encountered such a harassing insolvency proposal. i need not add that such a situation would seriously damage the company concerned. i support the effort to modernise insolvency law, but because i am convinced that this document does not guarantee adequate protection for employees, i abstained from voting.
in writing. i supported the proposal for new rules on insolvency proceedings because i believe it is a good example of useful eu legislation that helps to deal with situations with an increasingly cross-border element. in particular, i welcome the fact that the new rules also aim to eliminate forum shopping and introduce an online database of ongoing crossborder proceedings.
in writing. ‒ we must have stronger mechanisms that support the respect of human rights and business transparency in the areas where minerals are extracted. to truly change things on the ground, we need a system that will work in practice. this is why i supported a mandatory due diligence system for all smelters, refiners and importers of minerals, because it can realistically be implemented and hit hard where it matters. it is, however, simply not feasible to include a mandatory approach to all downstream companies in the supply chain. these companies would struggle to obtain the information from all their different suppliers, and it will be the smes that will mostly be penalised. if this mandatory system for all actually could work in practice, then it would have my full support. but as we have seen with the us example of dodd-frank, going further in legislation does not always mean we get the desired results.
in writing. the great lakes region of africa is a place of frequent conflict, with minerals and metals playing a vital role. a cursory glance at the history of the countries in the region that lie (i.e. burundi, the democratic republic of congo, kenya, rwanda, tanzania and uganda) shows that this soil is soaked in the blood of civil wars and genocide. the european parliament has decided to help at least a little to alleviate the difficult situation in which the region finds itself. the left-wing forces in the european parliament have made it clear that they want a certification system to be introduced to make it clear that minerals and metals do not come from conflict zones and are therefore not, for example, so-called blood diamonds. today, consumers are often indirectly linked to conflicts that have serious implications for the peaceful development of the region. human rights abuses in the mining industry are common, which may include child labour, sexual violence, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and the destruction of ritually or culturally significant sites. the great lakes region should be a place of democracy and education, not of inhuman practices to increase profits, which then end up in the pockets of self-styled leaders or arms and drug dealers. anything that helps stop this, i'm happy to support, as is this motion.
in writing. ‒ it is a naive attempt to prevent human rights abuses in the extraction of precious minerals. but making regulations doesn't help people. at best, it will drive smaller firms out of the market and empower large corporations. i have nothing against voluntary certification of companies. but there is no need for an eu directive.
in writing. ‒ i am glad at the result achieved by parliament on the s&d proposals of establishing a eu system for supply chain due diligence self-certification of responsible importers of metal in conflict areas. regarding continuing conflicts and suffering around the world, it is important that we ensure a disconnection between conflict financing and mineral extraction to promote economic transparency and, most importantly, human rights. it is therefore equally crucial when it comes to making solid changes of situations in high-risk areas to introduce a mandatory scheme of due diligence for the entire supply chain to guarantee the traceability of not only imported metals, but also of all natural resources from such areas. meanwhile, i am also convinced that special attention and flexibility should be designated to the smes along with the requirement of a mandatory self—declaration as a responsible importer. with the voice of parliament demanding an exclusion of conflict metals in the eu market, i look forward to a final resolution, in accord with the commission and council, being adopted to put the approach of achieving human rights into practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text calling for a european certification system for smelters and refiners of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, in order to stop the exploitative and deadly trade in conflict minerals. this eu legislation should serve as a model to create a positive dynamic in other parts of the world to put an end to the exploitation of minerals that are funding conflicts.
in writing. the dangerous substances restriction directive, adopted in 2011, temporarily excluded the use of cadmium in leds for lighting and display components until july 2014. however, in january this year, the commission surprisingly proposed, by means of a delegated act, a further extension of the use of cadmium in televisions until june 2018. in my view, the commission was therefore essentially seeking to reintroduce cadmium on the eu market, as some producers have already fully started to remove cadmium from their products, following the expiry of the original exemption in july 2014. the commission's reasoning is that, according to it, cadmium-free quantum dots are not technically available at present. however, in my view, this is only a trade conflict between two groups of producers, where one has already developed and successfully introduced the necessary technology, the other has not yet and is asking the commission for more time. in this light, and on the basis of the analysis provided by the legal service of the european parliament, which assured us that the rejection of this delegated act does not mean the prohibition of cadmium in quantum dots, as the original exemption remains in force, i have decided to support a resolution that will not allow the use of cadmium in diodes to be extended. and that is also because the resolution i supported calls for a re-examination of the extension of the derogation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that the commission's proposal in this case, exceptionally, means less regulation and unnecessary prohibitions.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution by which the ep objects to the commission delegated directive amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display systems. i believe that the exemption for the use of cadmium, which covers a wider range of lighting and visual technologies (typically mobile phones, monitors, televisions, tablets), is justified today. while i am generally in favour of reducing health risks, cadmium-free technologies do not seem to be ready to meet the demands of the market today, for example, due to low energy efficiency and short life problems. to my knowledge, there is not enough technology on the global market without the presence of cadmium. i am afraid that the repeal of the exemption will mean the destruction of investments made by the lighting industry in particular to improve energy efficiency, and therefore i think it may be premature.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament objects to the european commission's directive granting an exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display systems. the industry uses quantum dot technology based on cadmium, a toxic element. this exemption may be granted where technical progress does not allow the dangerous element to be replaced by another or where it would be an economically unsustainable production method. but since these cadmium-free technologies are already on the market and are comparable in performance to, or even superior to, cadmium-based technologies, i do not think it is necessary or desirable to allow an exemption and thus to extend the production of cadmium-based technologies that are demonstrably harmful to the human body. that's why i voted against the waiver.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support the objection to the delegated act on exemption for cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. cadmium is a highly toxic metal the use of which is restricted to cases where there is no substitute: illuminations and display lightings fall under this exception. the exemption came to an end in 2014 and the commission is asking, through a delegated act, to renew it. i am opposing it because the exception is based on outdated information and may no longer be justified. opposing the delegated act does not mean immediate banning of cadmium as the exemption will remain until a decision is taken. what i want is to send the decision back to the commission for a thorough technical assessment, in line with an objective of better regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that this commission proposal is exceptionally less regulatory and more pro-business. i'm not in favor of putting in more ethanol-related red tape.
mr. chairman, i would like to explain why i abstained in the final vote and did not support the final resolution. i think that supporting mothers on maternity leave, creating the best possible conditions for reconciling the role of mother and the professional role is in the interest of the european union, but it is above all in the interest of the member states. i could not agree that this resolution contained a proposal to introduce compulsory paternity leave of 10 days. i think this is something that the member states, the european parliament and the european commission have to agree on. the motion for a resolution also called for a return to the old draft directive, which has been on the table for more than seven years and which has proved to be a dead end. that is why i prefer to support the new approach of the european commission promised by commissioner vera jourová.
in writing. ‒ the question of maternity leave is a critical topic that must be discussed, however it is my view that in this case the member state level is best placed to be the most effective and efficient for taking into account the views of our citizens. with so many differences between the member states and our national laws, it is inappropriate to attempt to apply a ‘one size fits all’ policy. we should instead be focusing our efforts into those areas where we can commonly create added european value. if this was a resolution on facilitating a better work-life balance for both men and women, it would have my full support. i regret that in this occasion i cannot support this as it stands.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on maternity leave. parliament has decided to vote for a resolution which would prescribe 20 paid weeks of maternity leave (of which only 6 fully paid) and a call for a different proposal for fathers allowing them to take paid leave for 10 days. it is hard for me to agree that such proposals would add value, stand for more equal rights for mothers and fathers and would progress gender equality, in particular in relation to working mothers. first, my question is why do we need to treat parents of one kid in two different pieces of legislation? second, i find the standards set by both proposals very low and discriminatory towards parents of different sexes. in addition, they would create clear inequality between parents of the same sex. the commission should have the right to withdraw this outdated proposal and revise the 2010 parental leave directive to allow both parents, irrespective of their sex, to take, on equal terms, paid leave and to decide who stays at home. if not, it should be left to the member states to continue their own policies which, in most cases, are much more generous, dynamic and flexible.
‒ it is rather sad that the european parliament has to remind the commission and the council from time to time what they should do and that they should agree. that is the de facto purpose of the motion for a resolution on maternity leave which i supported. the european parliament discussed the proposal to amend the maternity leave directive at first reading on 20 october 2010 and since then this single directly elected body of the european union has been waiting in vain for the council's opinion. the change was to determine the rules for so-called paternity leave. one of the many reasons for this change was that the sharing of family and household responsibilities between women and men is a key condition for achieving gender equality, and given that a quarter of member states do not allow any paternity leave, it seemed appropriate for the european parliament to have a say on the issue. however, it seems that the other bodies refuse to discuss the matter. in a debate less than a day before the vote on the motion for a resolution, commissioner jourová announced that she was withdrawing the proposal to amend the maternity leave directive, and she had made the document in question a worthless piece of paper. six months ago, she promised: 'i will seek support for the directive on maternity and parental (and therefore paternity) leave, which has been proposed since 2008.'
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the resolution calls for the introduction of a directive on maternity leave. this matter must remain the exclusive competence of the individual states, taking into account their domestic situation.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament today, in its resolution, called on the european commission to unblock the new legislative proposal on the maternity leave directive. the block was imposed by the european council. some eu member states have opposed the extension of the minimum compulsory maternity leave to 20 weeks, including the parliament's recommendation to pay a full maternity allowance for the whole period, which the council has refused to accept. the council refused to discuss the matter further, which parliament considered unacceptable. the new negotiations can finally take place under the forthcoming luxembourg presidency. the european commission has received a clear signal about our priorities: we want to protect the health and safety of pregnant women in the workplace and in the post-natal period. many women are most economically vulnerable during maternity leave, and lack of economic security leads them to delay starting a family until an increasingly older age. we also called on the commission to prepare proposals for paid leave for fathers, as they, like mothers, should be given the opportunity to better balance their work and family life.
in writing. i supported the resolution, which reiterates the european parliament's determination to contribute constructively to unblocking the situation in the council which has prevented the adoption of the maternity leave directive for several years. the lack of interest on the part of the member states in making progress on this matter is indeed regrettable, but it should not be a reason for the commission to give up and not continue its efforts to find a solution.
in writing. when i voted on the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, i voted against it for two main reasons. the directive, which the resolution calls for to be reviewed, is already problematic in its very essence, in particular because it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity, since the regulation of certain specific rights falls, in my view, within the competence of the member states. in particular, however, i do not agree that the maternity leave directive should deal with issues which, in my view, are not directly related to the subject, such as bioethical or gender issues.
in writing. ‒ maternity leave is an essential tool for women in today’s society and that should be acknowledged. but it is not the responsibility of the eu to legislate on that issue. this is a purely national competence and i believe that the eu should not interfere in such matter. this is why i voted against this resolution.
‒ i believe that the debate on maternity leave needs to be reopened at european level. however, this issue must be approached in a constructive and open way, in particular in the context of finding a satisfactory solution for european citizens from all member states. this is clearly a politically complicated issue which affects the subsidiarity of the states.
mr president, i would like to explain why i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament responds to the united nations' questions on the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities. the european union should set an example in the field of equal employment opportunities for people with disabilities. i also have great respect for the members who work very hard here in the european parliament, and my predecessor, mr kossa, is one of those very active members. the lack of action by the european union is also reflected in the fact that the percentage of disabled staff in the eu institutions and bodies is still small. i know that criticism of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities is not always welcome, but it is not something to be taken lightly and it is something to be faced and acted upon.
mr president, there are 80 million disabled people in the european union who have the same rights as any other european union citizen. however, the practice is far from being the same, and people with disabilities face many obstacles that healthy people do not even realise. whether it's access to education or employment, transportation, finding a place to live. the european parliament, in cooperation with the commission and the council, should work towards removing these obstacles and towards the specific objectives and basic tasks identified by the un committee. in this context, i would like to call on the european commission to present as soon as possible the promised european accessibility act, which also highlights the recommendations of the un committee on the european union. we should bear in mind that the convention only sets minimum standards for the protection of persons with disabilities. the european union should seek to promote their higher level. i therefore naturally supported the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i firmly believe that the european union and its member states must honour their commitments as signatories to the convention. for me as rapporteur on web accessibility, i would like to especially stress the need to ensure that persons with disabilities are fully included in the digital revolution and our european digital single market. as we move forward with e-government and e-commerce, all citizens must be able to take part and have full access to information. i hope the commission will take this into account when drafting the concrete proposals listed in the dsm strategy action plan. i also look forward to the council adopting its general approach on web accessibility as soon as possible so we can finally make this eu law and make sure no one is left behind in digital europe.
in writing. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities entered into force on 21 january 2011. however, following the commission staff working document, a whole list of questions has emerged which have been adopted by the relevant un committee and which now need to be answered by the commission. given that the parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union representing european citizens, it is somewhat sad that it has limited powers in monitoring the un convention. the european parliament therefore has no choice but to assure the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities that the european parliament will respond to questions addressed directly to it, while urging the commission to take account of parliament's positions in formulating its replies. i would consider it reasonable for the european institutions to try to work in concert and not to do so to the detriment of those who are already in a difficult position. despite existing programmes, initiatives and strategies at eu level, employment of people with disabilities is less than 50% and employment of women with disabilities is 44%. i believe that we can help people with disabilities if we work in concert. the point is to help, not to fight. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which is written in a similar spirit.
in writing. i am aware of the problem the resolution is addressing, but i see it as more of a rhetoric about unemployment of the disabled, a call for new statistics to be collected rather than real solutions that could help these people to feed themselves, such as the removal of regulations for home-based manufacturing.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is absolutely essential to remove any restrictions on the rights of persons with disabilities, especially in the areas of social protection, education and access to services such as transport or accommodation. persons with disabilities must have equal rights and be fully integrated into society.
in writing. ‒ since the olive problem does not concern the czech republic, whose citizens i represent, i left it to the colleagues concerned to decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for further measures to prevent the spread of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium destroying olive trees in italy. xylella fastidiosa is a dangerous threat to the production of certain crops and urgent measures are needed. indeed it is urgent to take initiatives to avoid the spread of xylella fastidiosa within the eu, in particular by targeting the crops most at risk, while not neglecting other crops that could also be seriously affected by the disease. we should also bring support to the producers affected by this bacterium.
madam president, turkey has changed in the last 12 years in a way that it had not changed in decades before. i'm afraid we haven't adequately reflected these changes. of course, we don't like some of these changes, but i think we should acknowledge and respect them. turkey has changed its paradigm in the perception of the european union, it has changed its domestic policy, it has changed its foreign policy, which is much more assertive. in any case, turkey remains an important player in the region, remains a key geopolitical player in terms of security and also in terms of energy security of the european union. turkey also deserves a lot of credit for its approach to refugees, because if it hadn't been taking in refugees from syria and iraq, they would have been in europe by now. regardless of its accession to the european union, we are doomed to cooperate with turkey. i think we should not push him into a corner and certainly if the pre-accession assistance were to be cut off now, at a crucial time before the election, i would consider it a very bad signal. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
blue-card answer.– i do not see the necessity of introducing any new measures or any new instruments. i think, and i can only repeat what my predecessor mr kukan has said, that we are in the course of a negotiation process. i think that the trustworthiness of any international organisation, and the european union first and foremost, should be measured also according to whether it is able to fulfil its promises. once we have started the negotiation process we have to go on with that and we have to make a final evaluation at the end of this process, not stop it in the meantime or change the conditions in the meantime.
blue-card question. – my question is really simple and short. do you stay here in the plenary session all the time?
madam president, the eastern partnership was a good, even excellent idea, but the commission helped to destroy it by succumbing to an entirely american policy of hostility towards russia. there was the destruction of ukraine. there's currently 60% inflation, a technical default of the national bank. it should be said that since the maidan, 46 banks have actually failed in ukraine. the average monthly income is currently eur 40. at the moment, the americans are pulling back, as evidenced by the sochi meeting between kerry, lavrov and putin and the visit of victoria nuland to moscow. i think it's time we stopped playing dumb and did the same, and quit.
madam president, the forthcoming eu council summit in riga will be an opportunity to differentiate the european union's relations with each of the six eastern partnership countries. the other side of the coin will be the search for a single common position of the european union towards the eastern partnership countries. what's the common denominator for the six countries? the three eastern partnership countries are at war, armenia is at war with azerbaijan, ukraine is in a hybrid war with the russian federation. three countries have part of their territory occupied, georgia abkhazia and south ossetia, moldova the left bank of the dniester, ukraine crimea and part of donbas. the sixth country is belarus, a country that is not shy about fearing external security risks. the common denominator for the european union's policy towards the eastern partnership countries is in all cases the imperial and violent policy of the russian federation. i would ask commissioner hahn to find the courage to call things by their right names. russia has launched a hybrid war against europe. russia is waging a hybrid war against eastern partnership countries whose peoples are showing an effort to break free from the grip of the autocratic kremlin regime and to embrace european democratic values. my country's president, vaclav havel, once said that we help russia by telling the truth about it. russia has become the reaganite empire of evil once again. especially for the eastern partnership six.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, in just a few weeks’ time we will have 61 heads of state and government in brussels – about one third of the united nations membership, representing around a billion citizens. but, as the saying goes, we are much more than the sum of our parts. over the last few years, the eu and celac have accumulated a considerable stock of political and economic capital, which is the reflection of a modern relationship developing in terms of equality and mutual respect. today’s debate has put forward ideas and perceptions which show that, while the region is indeed diverse, there is no one-size-fits-all approach. it also presents itself as a constructive partner with whom we can work and achieve things. several of you mentioned development cooperation with latin america. the eu continues to provide aid to the poorest latin american countries at bilateral level with development cooperation, and it increased regional cooperation to foster integration. the overall budget for 2014-2020 under the development cooperation instrument is about eur 2.4 billion. you also asked about trade negotiations. commissioner malmström is planning a meeting with mercosur ministers in the margins of the summit to try to relaunch negotiations on trade agreements. moments such as the upcoming summit will serve to reaffirm this relationship of equals and explore the modalities in which, together, we can address common challenges. but summits, whichever they may be, are just another stepping stone in the process. what is essential is to ensure a proper follow-up of what is discussed by leaders. this is why we will also propose at the summit to reinstall ministerial meetings in the year between the summits so as to strengthen our relations and ensure continuity. thank you very much for this debate.
in writing.– now is the time to infuse new vibrancy into our relations with latin america and the caribbean. i truly hope that the upcoming eu-celac summit will mark the start of a renewed focus on many important areas of cooperation. the summit provides the perfect opportunity to send a clear message on how to strengthen our trade ties with the region. i expect a clear political push for the upgrade of our trade relations with mexico, as well as new momentum to our longstanding negotiations with mercosur. both sides must begin taking steps now to move forward. while highlighting trade relations with the region, europe must also be active in supporting civil society in latin america. a strong civil society is vital to the democratic process. we must give additional support to countries such as cuba during its transition to ensure that fundamental rights are respected throughout the process. the human rights situation in venezuela is worsening. supporting civil society there is key to ensuring a peaceful and democratic solution to the current crisis. as a first step, all political prisoners must be freed.
madam president, the youth employment initiative is one of the important instruments, alongside labour market reforms, for increasing the participation of young people in the labour market. i therefore consider the report that the european council increased the pre-financing in 2015 by almost eur 1 billion to be very important. i am all the more pleased that the approval in the european commission, parliament and council has been achieved in record time. effective and meaningful cooperation is the only way to ensure a better future for young people. we are all aware that the differences in unemployment between member states are profound. in some countries, the unemployment rate among young people is even higher than the rate among those in employment. other countries, on the other hand, are doing so well with youth employment that they are not receiving any of the money from the initiative. i believe that now that the european council has approved the pre-financing, the whole process of implementation will be accelerated. it is worrying that more than a year after the launch of the initiative, we are still not seeing real results and the opportunities available remain untapped. are administrative obstacles the cause of this situation? or vague definitions of 'quality employment' that set goals that are difficult to define and evaluate? i would like to personally urge the member states to seize this great opportunity to change the unpleasant situation on the labour market responsibly and to use the hand that has been given really effectively. how do you, the council, intend to motivate the member states?
madam president, the importance of acer is growing with the size and complexity of the european energy market. the failure to open up the single european energy market has made the role of common oversight of good practice all the more important. for the market to function properly, we need a remit system to monitor extreme fluctuations in energy trade. we all know that the agency's technical and human resources are essential for such a complex task. unfortunately, acer is facing a shortage of both staff and funds. acer's activities cannot be supplanted by national regulators, who have a different, independent and irreplaceable role in the system. i therefore join the question: how will the commission deal with this urgent problem?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, zimbabwe is mr dzamara. zimbabwe is also his wife, who is undergoing enormous pressure. but zimbabwe is also dozens, hundreds and thousands of other people, who do not know for an hour, a minute, when something can happen to them. so zimbabwe is a dictatorship regime. mr mugabe is a dictator, and against this background we decide to soften and ease up the sanctions! i am aware that i am speaking to the vacant chairs of the council on an issue which is completely impossible to comprehend. this is yet another concrete example, another concrete case, of a country that just confirms that we need to be very consistent in including binding non-negotiable, strong human rights clauses that we are ready to implement, to enforce with clear conditionalities. it is time we did that, i invite the commission to be thorough on that, and i invite the council also to be extremely sensitive about drawing wrong conclusions, as it did some time ago, on sanctions.
mr. chairman, i thank you for the opportunity to speak. i would also like to support mr dzamar, of course. as for his whereabouts, i wish for this victim of mr mugabe's regime to be released as soon as possible. however, i think that the european union's view should be holistic. it should include a look at the support that the european union provides to the various countries which, as has already been said, often fail to follow their course. there is no doubt that southern rhodesia was a relatively successful and relatively wealthy state in its history, and all of that was destroyed by the mugabe regime. i think that human rights violations, ethnic cleansing, murder, kidnapping, these are exactly the hallmarks of those countries that should not be receiving any support at all. the european union should put pressure on these regimes to change. it's not interference, it's simply a demand for the natural rights of man that are universal throughout the world.
mr. president, freedom of speech is a thorn in the side of any totalitarian regime. i have personal experience from my youth with the communist regime that persecuted political opponents in czechoslovakia. an example of this is our former president, vaclav havel. it's been said, in a funny way, that the difference between democracy and totalitarianism is that under totalitarianism there can be freedom of speech, whereas in democracy there is freedom after speech. zimbabwe is a long way off, but the european union must show that human rights must be upheld in its external relations. the effort to free mr dzamara is therefore also a struggle for our own european identity. so i want the european union to re-impose sanctions on zimbabwe.
member of the commission.– mr president, we share the concerns for the welfare of the journalist, human rights defender and leader of occupy africa unity square, itai dzamara. previously, human rights defenders abducted in zimbabwe have usually reappeared after a few weeks. prior to their release, zimbabwean civil society could also usually get information about them through informal contacts with members of the security forces. mr dzamara was abducted on 9 march and it is a matter of concern that there have been no indications about his situation. the european external action service (eeas), through the eu heads of mission in harare and services in brussels, is closely following the fate of mr dzamara. the european union seizes every opportunity to convey to the zimbabwean government our concerns and to demand that the authorities do everything in their power to restore him to freedom, as well as respect to their legal obligation to report to the court the progress of the investigation. the european union also reminds the zimbabwean government that human rights lie at the core of our partnership and the gradual normalisation of our relations. to mark the second month of this abduction, the european union missions in zimbabwe published on 9 may a new statement underlying these concerns and calling on the government of zimbabwe to ascertain mr dzamara’s whereabouts and safety, and to bring to justice those responsible for his abduction. eu statements were previously released on 11 march and 9 april. eu statements have been welcomed by zimbabwe’s civil society and human rights defenders who expressed their appreciation for the eu’s swift action. the fate of itai dzamara was also raised by the head of delegation in harare during his schuman day speech. vice president emmerson mnangagwa described in the parliament on 11 march the kidnapping as a barbaric act and gave assurances that the government was engaged with the relevant departments to investigate this case. so far, the lack of results remains deeply disappointing. this is the situation.
author.– mr president, the problem of migration in the mediterranean cannot be treated in isolation. the crisis of the rohingya refugees starkly reminds us of this. it is time we adopted a comprehensive approach to tackle the problem of migration globally. men, women and children fleeing sectarian violence in burma and poverty in bangladesh are dying in camps and abandoned at sea. i welcome efforts to immediately relieve the suffering of the rohingya. providing humanitarian aid and states offering temporary protection are critical to the hundreds of migrants at immediate risk. the solution of providing temporary protection, however, will not solve the problem of migration in the long run – not in the straits of malacca nor in the mediterranean. we must first put an end to the networks of smugglers that take cruel advantage of human suffering and desperation. to truly address the problem of migration for good we must engage with countries to take responsibility for the safety and well-being of their citizens. burma must change its approach towards minorities and recognise the rohingya as lawful citizens.
mr president, under the cotonou agreement, swaziland must respect democratic values, which undoubtedly include freedom of speech. that's why i see the imprisonment of lawyer thulani masek and journalist bheki makhbub as illegal. no state can violate basic human rights and use brutal methods and brutal ways against its critics. we need to make it clear to swaziland that democracy works differently. the government of swaziland must safeguard and promote democratic values as set out in its constitution. the european union wants nothing more, the european union only wants swaziland to respect its own constitution, and it is the european union's job to oversee that and to further protect human rights in swaziland. otherwise swaziland will not be a trading partner for the european union and this discussion should send a clear signal to the swaziland government.
madam president, unlike my predecessors, i believe that the common foreign and security policy should be as much common to all the countries of the european union as possible, and should be so common that it should be a common single policy. i think that in this collective strength there is then a far greater strength of all the nations that are united within the european union. unlike my colleagues, i believe that this represents a huge opportunity to promote europe's voice throughout an increasingly globalised world. i would like to open with one more point, which concerns defence policy, namely its duplication with nato forces. i have long held the position that nato should not be duplicated by the european union in defence policy. however, the events in ukraine and the inability of the european union to directly intervene in this conflict with a reasonable solution, is, i think, a question for defence policy.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which also contains paragraph 38, in which the parliament says that it is surprised that there are still no tax incentive mechanisms at eu level for cooperation and pooling of resources [in defence and security policy] and is convinced that such exemptions [from vat] must be applied systematically and calls for the creation of any other incentives that could stimulate cooperation between european stakeholders. the commission is therefore calling for more action on the common defence and security policy, possibly with a view to building a european army, as high representative mogherini has said. i do not agree that the european union should have its own security and defence policy, let alone its own army. as a defence alliance in europe, nato serves the member states well and it is neither necessary nor desirable to duplicate or compete with the european defence alliance.
‒ the security situation in the eu, especially in its eastern and southern neighbourhood, is becoming increasingly volatile and variable, due to a large number of long-standing and emerging security challenges. the conflict in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation daesh, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (in particular in the sahel, libya and the horn of africa) all pose an immediate threat to the security of the union. i consider it necessary for the union and the member states to take greater responsibility for their own security and defence and to be able to respond effectively in an emergency. it is therefore entirely appropriate to make a joint and coordinated effort within the cfsp/cfsp framework to develop a new common european security strategy that defines the geostrategic scenarios, threats and global challenges that have emerged and more precisely outlines the actions that the eu can take in response to them. particular attention needs to be paid to the integration of cyber defence into member states' national security strategies, as cyber attacks have increased in recent years and this trend is expected to continue. i am confident that the european council will agree at its june meeting on further concrete steps leading to more effective and deeper pan-european coordination of security policy, including on the question of funding.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of security and defence policy and believe that we need to work together and invest appropriately in defence policy. this must not happen in the context of parallel structures leading to the weakening of nato, which is the basis of the common defence policy. we should generally avoid any defence activities outside nato, and that is why i could not support this report as it stands.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which also contains paragraph 28, in which parliament is concerned that there are still no mechanisms at european level to provide tax incentives for cooperation and sharing [within the framework of the common defence and security policy] and recognises that these exemptions [from vat] must be systematic and extended to infrastructure and specific capacity-building programmes and calls for the development of any other incentive mechanisms that could promote cooperation in capacity between europeans. the commission is therefore calling for more action on the common defence and security policy, possibly with a view to building a european army, as high representative mogherini has said. i do not agree that the european union should have its own security and defence policy, let alone its own army. as a defence alliance in europe, nato serves the member states well and it is neither necessary nor desirable to duplicate or compete with the european defence alliance.
‒ i voted against this resolution, which also contains paragraph 13, in which parliament calls for cooperation and association and joint use of initiatives to be considered as a priority area, calls on the european commission to propose [...] how tax incentives could contribute to achieving these objectives, considers that the projects of the european defence agency should be exempt from vat and expects that it will include measures to promote cooperative purchases of defence equipment and the provision of appropriate support. the commission is therefore calling for more action on the common defence and security policy, possibly with a view to building a european army, as high representative mogherini has said. i do not agree that the european union should have its own security and defence policy, let alone its own army. as a defence alliance in europe, nato serves the member states well and it is neither necessary nor desirable to duplicate or compete with the european defence alliance.
in writing. i have supported the report by mrs gomes and i also thank you for including my comments which respond to the recent negative experience with the storage of military equipment in the czech republic. last year, two citizens were killed in uncontrolled explosions at the ammunition storage facility in vrbetica, hundreds of people were temporarily forced to stay away from their homes, and the damage caused by the actions of a private entity came to tens of millions of crowns from the public budget. this tragedy has confirmed the importance of regular checks on all defence and security equipment by the responsible authorities, including the maintenance of proper records. i also welcome the fact that the report stresses that the procurement of defence and security equipment must take into account the need to ensure the highest level of protection and safety for the civilian population. i hope that the member states will join the european parliament in this challenge.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, first of all let me start by saying that i highly appreciate that this is a g7 summit and not a g8 summit for the reasons that you have expressed, and i do appreciate the consistency that we are able to apply for once. now, in terms of the g7 and the reading of the public and their expectations, for the public this is a global forum, a global forum to debate issues of global importance, where vision is necessary and vision is sought, where concrete issues are debated and solutions are tabled. this is the expectation. and i think that in this respect, the agenda is fine. i do not think i will comment on the agenda, i see it there and i think that a lot is hidden between the lines. there is, though, one issue which we feel, and rightly so, has a european dimension. but this is not just a european issue, it is not an issue of libya, syria, eritrea or the middle east, it is an international issue. today it might be libya, syria, eritrea, and the most affected countries such as malta and italy, but also germany and sweden. but it is also myanmar today, and tomorrow it might be something completely different. so i think this is a serious issue. if we look at the topics – and again the agenda is right, with foreign policy, climate change, poverty, development aid and many other issues – i think we are talking about policies which lie at the heart of this problem, which in fact we partly co-created. we had a ‘plan a’ in some countries, but we did not have a ‘plan b’. so my plea really would be – and i have to quote you, mr first vice-president, as you mentioned this in the context of the summit with the african countries – that there is a direct link to immigration. i would say it has to be a topical issue in the debate, across the board, in all the policies. it is an international issue and unless we treat it that way we will not succeed. that would be my message on behalf of my group.
mr president, i also want to thank you for bringing this legislation. appreciate the reduction of bureaucracy, the simplification of procedures that lead to the promotion of the consumption of milk, fruit, vegetables in schools, all of this can undoubtedly be supported and thanked for it. however, there are also points which i do not think are so commendable and which i think should be changed, namely the limitation of aid, particularly for milk products, which is what the proposal today is about. i therefore support mrs köstinger's proposal that this aid should be extended to the range of dairy products. at the same time, i would like to express some regret that, once again, no real practical space has been given for the subsidiarity of european law, which should be primarily at the level of the eu member states. i think we have a debt here that we should address sometime in the future.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the alde group fully supports free and open media, and that is why we must do more to protect them from cyber-attacks. cyber-attacks on the media come in two forms: one on the information shared with the public, and the other on the actual sources of journalism information. both endanger our trust in a free media. on the public side, in only a few years what was a game for hackers, vandalising media websites and twitter accounts has been transformed into tools of misinformation and panic-mongering. false information placed on twitter has already led to panics on the stock market. cyber-attacks on the media have been used in warfare to cut off information to citizens: such attacks go all the way back to the war in georgia. and now hacked broadcasts are being used as propaganda for terrorist organisations. on the other side, journalists’ email accounts and networks are being hacked. the identities of whistle-blowers and anonymous sources are becoming known. these cyber-attacks come not only from criminal organisations but also from the misuse of government resources. without better protection, this will have a chilling effect on investigative journalism. as cases like ‘luxleaks’ have shown, we need strong investigative journalism in order to keep our businesses and governments straight. as our citizens move online for all their information and the rate of information exchange keeps increasing, we must find ways to help our media organisations adapt to the new threats facing them. freedom of the press today must mean more than the right to print what you believe: it must also mean that your readers’ trust will not be abused by hackers or criminals.
commissioner, first of all, i would like to say on behalf of our ppe group that i absolutely condemn the cyber attacks on the media that have taken place in recent months. whether it was the attack on french tv5 or the belgian newspaper le soir. cybercrime is a threat to every country, every business and every citizen because its consequences are unpredictable. it is increasingly clear that the eu is not sufficiently protected against such attacks and is not prepared to defend itself. these attacks could come at any time, anywhere. after all, there is no way that we cannot provide a high level of security for our most important networks, like transportation, energy, and healthcare, where there is an enormous amount of private data and data from state-owned enterprises. the main thing we are lacking at the moment is the interconnectedness and close cooperation at eu member state level. yes, commissioner, in 2013 we established a cyber-attack centre at europol in the hague. i had the opportunity to visit him personally. but we have to say that we have not given him enough financial coverage, that is, he does not have enough funds, and we should change this situation as soon as possible. so i would like to call on the member states in particular to help, to work together on common infrastructure, and on the european commission to try to prepare networks and authorities for attacks from outside.
madam president, thank you for the minute, but it is not enough to cover the whole range of the problem. i would like to focus on one aspect only, and that is the question of fundamental rights and freedoms. we admire the development of digital infrastructure in america, the us is also an example to us to some extent, but i think also an example in this not very happy sense, that is, in their process of surveillance and to some extent breaking into basic rights and freedoms. we should say to ourselves that this is not the way forward for the eu and for our citizens. i would very much like any solution that promotes the eu to be nowhere near as susceptible to this intrusion into fundamental rights and freedoms. i think this is a limit that we really cannot go beyond, and i would very much like to see that made clear here, as my colleagues have made it clear.
mr president, i would first like to thank you for your excellent czech, which is constantly improving from one plenary session to the next. but to an issue that is very important, that is very difficult to understand. i would like to say first of all that our task is to protect the rights of children, forced marriages are not only for girls, but also for boys. children are the most vulnerable group. children in europe must have the right to make their own choices, and it is not possible to dictate to them whom they should marry. this is why a number of initiatives are emerging in europe. there's a recent initiative in the uk that if a child wants to avoid being taken to india or another country, they take a spoon with them in their underwear. the staff of the service that checks the child when they go through the scanner can see this spoon and can actually tell that the child is being taken to a forced marriage. hundreds of children have been saved in this way all over europe. and i'm very happy that there are organizations, particularly in germany and the uk, that are systematically addressing this problem. yes, we can criticize forced marriages in many countries of the world here, but europe should focus on the problems that are inside. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to prevent this situation from occurring.
mr president, i must confess that i am genuinely surprised, or rather shocked, by the information which i have received from my colleagues as a result of this debate. i didn't know the problem was so serious in the eu. i apologize for my ignorance. the next time i am faced with something as shocking as this, i would also like to avoid it by actually directing the eu's development aid primarily to countries where such fundamental issues of violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms are not raised. it surprises me that it is even possible that the eu, in other cases, as we have seen, in other cases of human rights violations, can direct its development aid where the fundamental values we believe in are being violated. i don't have a timer, but i think it's past a minute.
mr president, today in my one-minute speech i would like to inform you about the curious opinions of czech president miloš zeman on russian sanctions. during his visit to moscow in may, czech president zeman said that he anticipated an end to the sanctions against russia by the end of this year. it is not clear where the president got this idea from. as far as i am aware, the eu is not planning to do any such thing. it is possible that the president’s words are not founded on truth. however, the man has in the past quoted articles which were never written, so in this case it could be that he misheard something which was never said. this is, however, a serious matter. can the high representative or the commission say whether the eu is really planning to lift its sanctions against russia by the end of this year?
mr. chairman, the subject of my speech is refugees. i want to emphasize my position and express my disagreement with mandatory quotas for the placement of asylum seekers. i am convinced that the czech republic and other countries are and will be in solidarity, but voluntarily, not by being overruled. but today's event reminded us of one particular refugee. his name is hartmut tautz. in august 1986, when he was 18, this citizen of what was then east germany was torn apart by military dogs on the czechoslovak-austrian border while trying to escape to the free world and died. today, an installation commemorating this terrible event was unveiled on the esplanade in front of parliament, with the participation of his mother and sister. however, some members of the radical left are calling for it to be removed. the pretext is the visualization of blood, but it's hypocritical, because all totalitarian regimes are based on bloodshed. my colleagues and i are fighting and hoping that the statue will last until june 2nd, when it is to be taken to the national gallery in the czech republic. in today's debate on refugees, this piece of art is a memorial to me, standing in front of parliament, reminding us of a time when europe was changed, was free, but the world around us was safe.
mr. chairman, injustice is a common feature of our lives and it comes in many forms. but the worst of these are experienced by poor and socially vulnerable biological families across europe, whose children are unjustly taken away. when i studied the cases that have been taking place in norway, for example, i was honestly very frightened. this injustice is all the more serious in a democratic country that respects human rights everywhere and is closely linked to the eu within the european economic area. i am personally very sensitive to injustice, it drives me in the fight against the injustice that happens to european families in norway, so i would like to call on european citizens to participate on may 30 in a pan-european demonstration against the social system in their cities. we must fight for integrity and transparency in child protection and respect european values in the fight for human rights.
mr president, i support the commission's initiative to extend the co-financing of the 'milk for schools' and 'fruits and vegetables for schools' programmes. i welcome the emphasis on healthy eating habits for children and the support for local agriculture that is linked to the programme. let me add one more aspect, and that is social. in many countries, including my own, this program has had a positive impact on children from poorer backgrounds, providing them with snacks that they would otherwise not have. but i am fundamentally opposed to restricting the range to fresh fruit, vegetables and drinking milk. the current composition of the range, which also includes juices, purees, yoghurts, cheeses and others, is very well used in my country, the czech republic. that is why i supported the amendment which was to preserve this range, i.e. to extend the range to include dairy products including cocoa. on the other hand, i do not think we should tell member states how to implement the programme and what to supply to schools. the principle of subsidiarity should apply. since these amendments were not adopted, i then abstained and did not support the motion as a whole.
in writing. ‒ on 27 may 2015, we voted to open and mandate negotiations on a regulation to fundamentally change the parameters of the 'fruit and vegetables for school' and 'school milk' projects. i voted against this resolution because i personally consider the current framework and the operation of the project to be fully adequate and very successful. the proposal that bothered me most was the planned reduction in the range of products that were subsidised and delivered to schools. the proposal as it stands very strictly limits the products supported to fresh fruit and vegetables and milk not sweetened or otherwise processed. of course, we can argue at length at both the lay and professional levels about how and whether juices and fruit purees or yogurts, cheeses and sour milk drinks derived from these raw materials are beneficial to the baby's body, but the fact remains that these are the most widely distributed and most consumed products of this project by children. thanks to these secondary products, the whole project in the czech republic is a success. it is very commendable that the eu wants to improve the health of children in this way, but on the basis of the information available, i believe that this change will only make it worse, because children will stop eating even the little fruit, milk and vegetables that we have been feeding them in this way, and the garbage cans in front of schools will be full of tons of rotting subsidised food, which i would very much hate to see.
in writing. - i voted against it, it's a waste of taxpayers' money. it's the parents' responsibility to give their kids snacks. the promotion of selected products distorts the market and the eu uses the programme to promote its products to children.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the ep's mandate to negotiate with the council on the decision on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. schools include healthy eating, which both programmes promote and help to develop healthy eating habits in children, especially with regard to fresh fruit and vegetables. programmes should also, where possible, make use of available local and regional production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the opening of, and mandate for, interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. i support the merging of the two existing schemes under the same legislative framework in order to help reduce the administrative burden. the current schemes have operated within different legal and financial frameworks, and have some important differences in their design and functioning. this change will make them more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to amend the aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments is an improvement on the current programmes, but for reasons of principle i did not support the proposal. these projects have a weak impact on both the milk market and the dietary habits of children, and there is no reason for the eu to fund similar programmes with taxpayers' money.
mr president, i wanted to say, and to react to the speech by mrs björg, that although i am not an old man, i will vote against the report by mrs marie-noëlle because the femm committee has not been able to find a good compromise. unfortunately, the report doesn't focus on what's really important and how we can help. we know that women's pay has not been increased, that there is still a 16% gap in the european union, that the pension gap still exists, that 39% of women and men are still in work, that although there is a large representation of women in universities, this does not correspond to the number of women in management positions in companies, in political positions or in universities. i think this report simply doesn't address what's important. why is that? why are women paid less, why do they have more trouble getting ahead? and that's natural, because women just have one more essential role that they're not replaceable in, and that's their mother role. this, of course, in some ways handicaps them in advancing in their professional careers. as a result of inadequate support measures, most european nations are dying. europe has no problem with women not having access to abortion and reproductive care, abortion is very common in europe, but women are not sufficiently valued and supported in their maternal and parental roles. therefore, the european people's party comes with its opinion which emphasises what really needs to be done, i.e. to support women in flexible working hours through public policies, incentives for businesses, it is necessary to ensure the reduction of the gender pay and pension gap. i believe that the european parliament will send a strong signal on this matter.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the g7 meeting was an attempt to fake european unity. mrs merkel did what she could, but she made no significant progress in condemning russian aggression in ukraine. the sanctions will continue, that's a positive outcome of the summit. but it is now clear that sanctions alone, or any other minsk agreements, are not enough. any indecision like we saw in bavaria is what putin needs. putin is laughing at us, ladies and gentlemen. he's also attacking the donbas with heavy weapons, developing a hybrid war against europe. ukraine has courageously decided not to submit to the mighty pressure of russia and to move freely towards its future. how is it supposed to implement reforms, meet the demands of the international monetary fund when it's being cut off from its own territory? we're running out of time, the conflict is tearing ukraine apart. there was no message from the summit that it was absolutely necessary to support ukraine militarily with arms and ammunition and to declare this openly. glory to ukraine!
reporting for the committee on legal affairs, allow me to present briefly the report on the road to a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. as i have said on several occasions, i am particularly pleased that the legal affairs committee as a whole has accepted my approach of really focusing on the report on the commission's action plan and not getting into other related issues. i think there is general agreement that intellectual property rights make a significant contribution to the economic growth of the european union and to its cultural diversity. we therefore welcome the commission's efforts to focus on improving the enforcement of intellectual property rights. i welcome the commission's efforts to come up with such instruments, which will be based on an understanding of the current state of play in this area, based on verified facts and based on consensus among all stakeholders. i believe that it is this consensus, this understanding of the widest possible range of stakeholders that can ultimately contribute most to an effective ipr enforcement system. for this reason too, i believe that a well-targeted information campaign can be both a means and an end to an action plan. i think it is worth mentioning how important the issue of fundamental rights can be. i certainly do not suspect the commission of not respecting these principles, i just think that in terms of public acceptance, the elimination of any doubt in this area is essential and that we should therefore approach the question of fundamental rights with the utmost care. personally, i would like to support the commission's 'follow the money' approach. i think there's a general consensus that we want to focus our efforts on those who harm intellectual property owners in an organized way for profit, not on individual users. i would also like to support the commission's proposals to help small and mediumsized enterprises. i do not see these as examples of 'special treatment' in the area of ipr enforcement, but only as one of a number of measures in different areas where we are interested in improving the position of smes. i believe that an effective system of enforcement of intellectual property rights is indeed essential for the future prosperity of the european union, and i hope that the european commission will play a vital role in this. i believe that the action plan needs to be implemented with urgency, responding flexibly to a rapidly changing environment and focusing only on effective and justified actions that will actually improve the position of rights holders, because that is the purpose of all the measures mentioned, to strengthen the position of rights holders. i therefore hope that the commission will be able to present the first results of its work and of its measures mentioned in the action plan by july 2016 at the latest.
american president calvin coolidge once said, "america's business is business". what is the european union's main interest? i hope so is business. our trade with the russian federation is approximately 120 billion euros. the united states only has 3 billion, but they're pushing us into sanctions that are stupid, senseless and counterproductive and that are hurting us. while our trade with the russian federation is stagnating, u.s. trade with the russian federation grew 6% last year. i think we should finally stop playing the role of useful idiots for the united states. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. president putin gave an interview to corriere della sera and said that only a madman or a fool would assume that russia wants to attack someone abroad. i think he's right, considering that of course the russian federation is weaker than the soviet union was, and that the military budget of the russian federation is one-eighth of what the united states has. the united states, by the way, has a military budget that is larger than the combined military budgets of the 12 countries that are behind the united states.
i welcome the landsbergis report, and i welcome it, among other things, because it does not limit itself to russia's aggression against ukraine, but it does not forget georgia and transnistria. i have recently visited, together with other colleagues from the european parliament, not only mariupol but also the defence positions in shirokin, and i can therefore confirm from my own experience much of what the landsbergis report describes. the minsk agreements are becoming a piece of paper that the putin regime is not taking seriously. neither the ceasefire, nor the absence of heavy weapons, nor the release of people like the pilot and mp nadia savchenko, none of this has been fulfilled by the russian side. i therefore believe that the european union should tighten up its sanctions against the aggressor without losing hope that after the fall of the putin regime russia will become an eu partner again as in the past.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there are a number of reasons why i cannot support this resolution, even though it is better than the original form. for example, the text describes democracy in all its forms, proclaims its interest in dialogue with russia, and is constructed in such a way as to prevent its renewal. he's completely unilaterally blaming russia for all the sins that fit into the text. on the other hand, i lack a similarly hard document that would criticize the tolerance of the marches of ss veterans and nationalists and neo-nazis, for example in kaunas or riga. in any case, let us first look at the respect of our own internal rules, so that the president of parliament, without the mandate of the members, does not arbitrarily decide to suspend the activities of a duly constituted delegation of the ep.
in 1994, russia signed the budapest memorandum, in which ukraine gave up its nuclear arsenal to russia. in return, russia commits to respect the territorial integrity of ukraine. twenty years later, russia has grossly violated that treaty. it's not the first time. any treaty signed with russia is worth the paper it's written on. and it won't be the last. today, russia is violating the minsk agreements and once again demonstrating its contempt for democratic principles and respect for international law. i ask you, commissioner, how much longer will we allow ourselves to be humiliated by the russian federation?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the adjustment rate for direct payments in respect of 2015. it is a technical report with the aim of reducing 2015 direct payments by 1.39%. this reduction in direct aid is needed so that eur 441.6 million can be found for the eu agriculture budget’s 2016 crisis reserve.
i consider it a big mistake that the comprehensive amendment proposed by the epp group was not adopted, because it really dealt with the core of the problem of equality between women and men. it offers concrete measures to help women better fulfil their professional and public roles, to combine their professional and family roles, and to combat violence against women. i think it is perfectly acceptable to the other political groups and i am convinced that the european people's party, our group, will return to this issue and that this is our position paper. unfortunately, i could not support mrs noichlov's final report because the amendments were not adopted, which omitted the negative aspects of the report which are beyond the competence of the european parliament and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the equal treatment of men and women is a fundamental right that must be respected. i regret that there are still many barriers preventing this in europe. the fact that there are differences in the salaries of men and women is completely unacceptable. access to flexible forms of work and ensuring a balance between work and personal life has to also be assured. these are crucial points which we must progress on. i regret, however, that i had to abstain on this strategy as there are some points that i cannot agree with. the issue of maternity leave is one where a one-size-fits-all strategy will not work, and is best left to the member state level. furthermore, i do not believe that the introduction of compulsory quotas is a way to enhance gender equality effectively in the long term.
in writing. ‒ whilst i feel it is very important to continue to take decisive steps towards strengthening gender equality, i abstained on the ep report regarding the eu strategy for equality for women and men post 2015. i agree with most of the contents of the document. however, i have previously expressed my dissatisfaction with the adoption of the maternity leave directive in its current format, as well as rejecting any calls for mandatory quotas for women as a tool to achieve gender equality. this resolution included these two items, which was the reason behind my abstention.
in writing. ‒ although i am far from agreeing with everything the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period after 2015 says, i have decided to support it. the primary reason is that the report emphasises the right to decide about one's own body and to self-determination, which is a fundamental prerequisite for universal equality. i fully share this view, because i believe that this should be an inalienable right of every woman. in addition, i considered it important to call on the commission to support member states in ensuring quality, geographically appropriate and accessible services in the area of sexual and reproductive health, related rights and safe and legal abortion and contraception, as well as general healthcare. the economic factors of equality are also very striking. the employment rate for women is 63% and, when expressed in full-time equivalents, is 53.5%. given the gender pay gap of 16.4% and the average pension gap of 39%, it is clear that women can only dream of economic equality for the time being, and i consider this unacceptable. i am afraid that change will be slow, but i am glad that the european parliament is taking up this issue.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the challenge to states to change their legislation in light of the changing definition of family with regard to parenting lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender people. to that call for quotas for women in business, sex education for children and a whole lot of other neo-marxist recommendations.
in writing. i am convinced that the eu strategy for gender equality post-2015 is not a redundant but a necessary document. it is debatable whether the breadth of its scope goes beyond what the eu should be able to say and influence, but the report does not lack the fundamental and unquestionable pillars of gender equality policy. these include, in particular, the principle of equal pay, i.e. the closure of the gender pay gap, the closure of the gender pension gap as a direct consequence of the wage gap and the adoption of appropriate measures to reconcile maternity and working life, for example by supporting reduced hours. the reality today in a number of countries, including the czech republic, clearly demonstrates the need for a report.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that parliament has today adopted this report prepared by ms maria noichlova, member of the social democratic group. i am particularly pleased about this, given the great pressure from some strongly conservative politicians for whom gender equality is still an undigestible commodity. the report contains a number of specific proposals for full equality for women, whether in terms of income, pensions, stereotypes in education, the right to abortion and, last but not least, measures to harmonise working and private life. i consider it essential to call on the commission to present as soon as possible a proposal for a directive on combating violence against women. however, i consider the report adopted today to be only the first step that the european commission should follow up with a new comprehensive strategy in this area. however, i am convinced that the european parliament, which already in may strongly called on the european commission to unblock the legislative proposal on maternity leave, has sent a sufficiently clear signal that it regards equal rights for women in society as a major priority and will continue to be intensely involved in this regard.
in writing. this year marks the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the beijing platform for action, which commits states to adhere to the set targets for achieving gender equality. however, when assessing the progress made since its adoption, it is clear that equality between women and men is only slowly being achieved. the european union should therefore adopt a strategy for the next five years. the report by mrs noichlov, whom i supported by voting in favour of it, also calls for this. it is unacceptable that the gender pay gap in some eu countries still reaches 30% and that women are therefore more at risk of poverty. this is also due to the higher proportion of women in part-time and precarious work, which results in lower pensions. the reconciliation of family and work life also remains problematic.
in writing. i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period after 2015 today, as unfortunately the resulting text does not take into account the amendments of the ppe, which were guided by the desire not to link the issue of equality between women and men with issues of reproductive health or the rights of persons with different sexual orientations, moreover in a way that violates the principle of subsidiarity, which should be applied to these issues.
in writing. ‒ it is unfortunate that in the 21st century women are not only facing unequal treatment at work, including lower remuneration, as well as other forms of discrimination in certain segments of society, but are regrettably facing harassment and violence. i see the report as a way of strengthening focus on this problem and attempt of introducing appropriate measures. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report as such, while i have voted against a number of amendments (on gender quota or the inclusion of a maternity leave). some amendments do not respect the principle of subsidiarity, some focus on measures which would increase significantly the administrative burden but would hardly achieve a proportionate result, regarding some one cannot have but serious doubts as concerns their relevance. i also found unacceptable those amendments which would affect public procurement rules or had the ambition to introduce legal acts of criminal nature. as this is an own-initiative report and thus a declaratory political document, i voted in favour of the report regardless of some of the amendments. i subscribe to the political message but remain firm in my opposition to gender quotas and references to maternity leave at european level.
in writing. ‒ the issue of gender equality needs to be addressed, but this report goes beyond the eu treaties and thus violates the principle of subsidiarity. by approving this text, the european parliament gives the european commission its consent to act in areas in which it has no competence and in which it should not intervene. i could therefore not support the report as it was drafted.
in writing. in my view, the main objective of european policy in this area should be to develop strong and firm strategies that would eventually lead to the elimination of the various forms of discrimination against women and men. gender equality in employment, social policy and the economy must be seen as a strategic and universal goal for the future, and not just beyond 2015.
in writing. i also supported the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries because it is a fitting complement to the report on the road to a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan, for which i was the rapporteur. both reports acknowledge the irreplaceable role of intellectual property rights in the pursuit and development of the modern 21st century economy. both reports highlight the need for greater coherence between the rules governing intellectual property rights inside and outside the european union. both reports also highlight the need for up-to-date, objective information and for achieving the broadest possible consensus on the role of intellectual property rights and the tools needed to enforce them effectively.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, it is necessary to be aware of the dangers involved in buying goods that infringe intellectual property rights. i would suggest that consumers should be made more aware of the risks that people in third countries have to take. due to digitisation, intellectual property infringements have multiplied many times over, mainly due to the increasing sales on the internet. the adoption of a more effective tool for controlling the online sales of physical products would be clearly helpful. in view of these facts, i fully support the eu action plan on intellectual property rights in third countries.
in writing. on 9 june 2015, i supported the report of my czech colleague, mr pavlo svoboda, entitled 'intellectual property rights: an eu action plan', because i believe that the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights contribute to generalised growth and much-needed job creation across the union. the document addresses the economic, social and even health impacts of infringement of intellectual property rights and their protection, also in the context of the eu charter of fundamental rights. in my view, if we want to further develop and ensure the proper functioning of the eu single market, which the czech republic has always consistently supported, we have no choice but to prevent the tax and economic losses that infringement of intellectual property rights represents for eu member states. the biggest problem with infringement i see is in the case of young people who continue to live in the spirit of the age of the internet's wild growth over the past two decades, when there was almost no protection of intellectual property rights on the internet, and they mistakenly believe that everything on the internet is free. it is therefore not only in this group that there is a need to intensively develop knowledge of the social and cultural significance of the protection of intellectual property rights.
‒ the development of new technologies, especially digital ones, also brings with it the requirement for adequate protection of intellectual property rights. i believe that infringements of intellectual property rights cause economic damage to european businesses and economic and tax losses to states. it is clear that people lack adequate knowledge of the social and cultural significance of intellectual property rights protection and of the activities considered to infringe them, and that young europeans in particular are not sufficiently aware of the possible impacts of intellectual property rights infringement i believe that the enforcement of intellectual property rights not only contributes to job creation and growth across the union, but is also a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the single market, in particular in view of factors such as the share of eu gdp, employment and the scale of industries that benefit from and use intellectual property rights. protection through intellectual property rights also plays an important role in stimulating innovation, creativity, competitiveness and cultural diversity. to better protect and inform consumers, we need an action plan to enforce intellectual property rights at eu level, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report on the action plan on rights because i believe that the eu should make a significant effort in this area. infringements of intellectual property rights, including the widespread practice of counterfeiting, impede economic growth, job creation and innovation and cause serious economic and tax losses. and it's discouraging economic activity in this area. the trend of a significant proportion of europeans to consider infringement of intellectual property rights to be acceptable is a worrying finding. it is therefore necessary to increase users' awareness and knowledge of intellectual property rights, in particular in the digital environment, which brings new temptations and opportunities for infringement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an eu action plan on intellectual property rights (ipr). the eu needs innovation and creativity to stay competitive and intellectual property is a key driver for our growth. we have to fight counterfeiting to enhance the eu’s industrial competitiveness globally. that is why i am in favour of the creation of an eu action plan to ensure the effective, evidence-based enforcement of ipr, which play a key role in stimulating innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity. moreover, in respect to the better regulation objectives, i fully agree that measures taken to enforce ipr should be based on precise, reliable data.
for the group gue/ngl. let me thank both rapporteurs for what i think is a great report and the commissioner for being with us today. the kyoto protocol was signed back in 1997, but it was never ratified by the biggest polluters, like the us or china. i would like to remind all my colleagues here that after the united states finally refused to ratify the protocol, its fate was in the hands of russia. yes, it was precisely what some of you call the terrible russia, which has been portrayed here many times over the last year as the very bottom of hell that the fight against climate change has made possible. if russia could sign this agreement, i see no compelling argument why the protocol and its amendments could not be signed by our most important trading partner, the united states of america. in 2012, in doha, the parties to the protocol adopted an amendment to the protocol, introducing a second commitment period from 2013 to 2020. yes, the eu and iceland's continued participation in the second review period of the protocol helps our fight against climate change, but this step is completely negligible if we cannot ensure the participation of the biggest polluters, such as china, india or the united states, whose share of emissions was only about 36% in the original protocol. let's say it loud and clear: the current emissions from the eu and iceland are not a problem, they are a gesture from the eu. without the biggest polluters, the eu cannot do anything alone, which is why we must urge these countries to join us during the upcoming paris climate change conference.
draftswoman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the european energy security strategy contains some really good points which can improve the quality of the environment in our view, so as to achieve a balance between ecological and socio-economic factors. first and foremost, it is about energy efficiency. the full exploitation of its potential and the development of smart infrastructure would stimulate growth and create quality jobs and reduce energy consumption. reducing energy consumption, together with energy efficiency, is a quick and effective way of tackling many problems such as energy security, dependence on foreign sources, high prices and unemployment. eliminating unnecessary consumption through better efficiency, stronger connectivity, greater market integration and sustainable investment in energy, in particular in buildings, could allow households to access a single, affordable, competitive and secure energy market on equal terms and avoid energy poverty, which affected a quarter of eu citizens in 2012.
for the s&d group. mr. editor, i want to thank you for your very good cooperation. our current way of life, the functioning of our economy and indeed our entire modern society are completely dependent on an uninterrupted supply of available energy, both in price and in physical form. energy security is therefore naturally one of our top priorities. not only will action by the member states be very important, but action by the european union will also play an increasingly important role. that is why we need an effective and strong european strategy to meet our energy needs in the future. a strategy that is not just a repetition of traditional recipes for our energy problems. the view has long prevailed among experts and the public that energy security is limited to the search for access to new fossil fuels, in particular oil and natural gas. thus, discussions often turned to plans for new gas and oil pipelines. this view was based on a century-long dependence on these raw materials. i believe that this attitude is long overdue. our long-term energy security is threatened today by our unsustainable, even irrational, dependence on oil and gas. it is not just imports from countries that are prone to use the so-called energy weapon to advance their foreign policy objectives. i also see a threat in the uncritical support of unconventional mining ... (the president cut off the speaker) the technologies used today have a clear negative impact on the health of citizens and the quality of the environment. this alone should be enough to ban fracking in the european union. that's not the only reason. the great danger is also that it will only prolong our dependence on oil and gas. the extraction of these unconventional resources will only postpone the much-needed transition to a low-carbon economy. that is why our group is tabled an amendment calling on the member states to stop extracting unconventional resources by hydraulic fracturing in europe. i am very pleased that the report presented is not limited to a short-sighted attempt to push for the construction of new oil and gas pipelines or to find more reliable partners. on the contrary, it offers very specific proposals and measures to gradually reduce our dependence and, in the process, to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy. the european energy security strategy must start first and foremost at home, in the european union. we need to fundamentally change the way we use energy, or in other words, the way we waste it. energy conservation is one of the least costly ways to enhance our energy security. lower consumption also means less dependence on oil and gas imports. it is regrettable that this is the area where member states did not have greater ambition last autumn and did not adopt a higher binding target for energy efficiency.
evgen tošenovský (ecr). as the morning debate has reminded us, any dependence of the eu on russia and its energy resources is indeed a big gamble. the best way to achieve energy security is to ensure alternative supplies and better energy interconnection between member states, but also to maximise self-sufficiency and the wise management of our own resources. unfortunately, the report again contains things we've repeatedly spoken out against. mentioning the binding 2030 targets, we see again the calls to decarbonize the mix and prioritise renewables. unfortunately, we have to keep reminding ourselves that the energy mix is in the hands of the member states. they have different conditions and use different resources, so it is technically impossible to dictate a single model across europe.
i think that the eu's energy policy has made a lot of mistakes in the past and we should admit that. in the czech republic, we have rural areas flooded with solar panels. this affects consumers, who pay billions of crowns a year, extra out of their pockets, to pay for this eu-preferred energy. we should get rid of the prejudice, there is a prejudice against nuclear power, we could have heard that a moment ago from your colleague. there are prejudices against natural gas, and if we don't get rid of those prejudices, we're going to get into more trouble. now that the wind is blowing stronger in germany, wind energy has to be moved and we all have to invest more money in the grids. it's costing us all a lot of money, so please let's get rid of these prejudices.
madam president, first of all, let me say that i highly appreciate the quality of the report, and i appreciate the concept of an energy union, as it wisely merges the issues of affordable energy and energy security and also the issue of sustainability and responsibility. i have just three comments. first of all, the efficient and responsible use of energy savings should be one of the key priorities of our energy policy. we should focus on an ambitious goal in this area, bearing in mind that the development of new technologies is making that more affordable than ever. technologies are real game-changers, and this is the game-changer that is on our side. we must fully utilise it to merge the goals in the areas of security, to support the economy and to use energy resources responsibly. secondly, energy security should not be an issue only at times of political crisis, like now in russia. there should be a long-term focus. at the same time, we should bear in mind that making energy more secure means making it more expensive, and people will have to pay the price. it is not for free, so we should focus on the tools that are the most efficient and offer the best cost-benefit ratio. lastly, we should focus on the energy we can generate most easily. that would seem to be electricity produced in a responsible, economical away, especially through new technologies.
in writing. i welcome the report on the european energy security strategy as it highlights the main challenges facing the eu energy sector. although significant progress has been made in recent years towards strengthening the eu's energy security, we still face a number of challenges, such as instability in energy-supplying regions or fragmentation of the internal market. i think it is important that the commission also addresses the problem of energy poverty seriously. i myself pointed out in my report the importance of measures to improve consumer awareness of the structure of energy prices and energy efficiency measures that would allow active consumer involvement in the management of energy consumption, including the possibility of easily changing suppliers.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i would ask my colleague, through you, if she really believes that she is a well-funded security expert who can assess the benefits of this package, which is designed to ensure the security of eu citizens. how will he then reply to eu citizens who have been the victims of an attack that we have been delaying the introduction of this package recommended by security experts?
commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate you and say how pleased i am that you are dealing with more and more controversial subjects. i would personally recommend changing the pr manager, because we need to communicate a lot about these issues. i have the impression from this discussion that some colleagues are not sufficiently well informed on these subjects. there are a number of myths associated with this package. i personally consider the package to be essential for the overall security of europe and its citizens. i believe we will achieve greater control of our external borders. especially in the face of the growing threat of terrorism, we need to be able to monitor people moving around the eu. the proposed measures will undoubtedly contribute to reducing the number of people living in the eu illegally. we have to say that. i think it is not possible or sustainable in this day and age to continue to have paper documents with stamps on them, as the number of people crossing borders increases. remember, we are living in the 21st century, and we cannot rely on someone stamping or not stamping the passport correctly. personally, i think it's too late to introduce smart borders today.
the reason you're getting criticism from us here is primarily because this isn't the first time we've discussed malpractice. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. after the publication of the 2014 annual report by the office's supervisory committee, doubts about the proper functioning of the office and its management have been further heightened. the authoritarian behaviour within an institution which is supposed to be an example of accountability and internal integrity, and the fact that this institution itself does not follow the rules and procedures, is not only a disgrace to the union as a whole, but above all it endangers the financial interests of european citizens. commissioner, the committee on budgetary control, but also civil society, has long been aware of the conflict between the supervisory committee and the management of olaf, which undermines the effective work of the entire institution. if olaf cannot function effectively, the european budget and the oversight of its proper use are put at risk, which affects the whole of the european union. if the current management is unable to deal with these problems affecting the quality of olaf's work in the long term, a change of management and a re-organisation of the internal relationship between the two bodies of the institution are necessary. so i ask, is it really not time for the eu to make a real change in olaf?
in writing. - i'm all for protecting the environment. but i don't agree with a dogmatic approach that ignores the possibilities of states, companies and citizens. green policies also create a lot of unnecessary regulations, which do not substantiate their significant benefits and which impose a high cost on member states' economies.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this recommendation, the european parliament gave its full support to the ratification on behalf of the eu of the doha amendment to the second kyoto protocol commitment period (from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020) and the joint implementation of the commitments this entails. the ratification of the doha amendment removes any danger of a legal vacuum arising between the end of the kyoto protocol and the new, legally binding, world climate deal, to be negotiated at the cop21 summit in paris in december 2015, that is due to come into force in 2020. if europe is the leading force in climate policy, then it needs to be followed by the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-iceland agreement on iceland’s participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol recommendation. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target. i welcome the intention of iceland to join the eu’s commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the eu in general strongly supports commitments of individual states to reduce their collective greenhouse gas emissions, and this step could serve as an important example and signal on the international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. the act concerns the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and simplifies its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. it will no longer be necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols, which will simplify the procedures both for croatia and for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving ec officials or officials of member states. it is a simple technical report aimed at allowing croatia to be bound to this convention on the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which i fully support. the russian government’s actions in ukraine and internally against opposition voices are unacceptable and we should continue all our efforts to return russia to a stable and democratic state that respects its neighbours and honours its international pledges and commitments. as called for by european council, i believe these actions should include a media campaign to counter the ever—increasing propaganda coming from the kremlin. russian citizens need independent and uncensored sources of russian language news and information. we must endeavour to assist both existing russian language services like radio free europe and euronews, but also to create new independent media sources on the internet and elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report assessing the current eu-russia relationship. i could not support the report in any way, because in my opinion it is completely unobjective and unbalanced. he blames russia for every sin imaginable. constantly blaming and slandering one another is a tactic that will not lead to anything good. as was the unilateral decision of the president of the ep, mr schulz, to suspend the activities of the delegation for cooperation between the representatives of the european parliament and the russian state duma. who else but parliament should be in favour of dialogue? the situation is untenable. while europe continues to crumble, the us benefits from the trade with russia, as evidenced by more than just numbers. a complete communication deficit is not the answer. i personally agree with jens stoltenberg, who said: "our goal is to work with russia. it's in the interests of nato, and in the interests of the russian federation.
in writing. i supported the report on the state of eu-russia relations because i believe that a clear signal needs to be sent to russia that the eu will not accept its aggressive and expansionist policy and will continue to insist on the return of crimea to ukraine and on compliance with the minsk agreements. the report also confirms the eu's firm stance on sanctions. in the event of unchanged russian behaviour, the eu should be prepared not only to extend the existing sanctions, but also to step up their enforcement. the eu should also agree on a communication strategy to effectively counter russian propaganda without delay. the very deliberate attempt to distort history not only offends me personally, but is also very dangerous. we must not indulge in the shameless lying about the past and the distortion of historical facts that we witnessed on the russian state-controlled television program about the events of august 21, 1968. i appreciate that the report also addressed this issue and did not forget the issue of funding of certain political entities from sources linked to russia.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted a strong resolution towards russia, especially just days after russia banned meps from entering the country who had criticised it in the past for its foreign policy and human rights abuses. russia's annexation of crimea and subsequent failure to respect the minsk agreements have made it a non-trustworthy partner for the eu, which of course does not mean that we are leaving the negotiating table. but we must make it clear that the eu will not compromise on its core values, which unquestionably include peace and democracy. russia has shown that peace and democracy are concepts that it is always willing to relativize if they stand in the way of advancing power interests. i believe that the european union's intransigence on fundamental issues, the continuation of sanctions which have not too short-term but a much more intense long-term impact, and the fight against russian propaganda will lead to a change of approach on the part of russia, which is necessary for the restoration of peace in europe and the restoration of confidence in the strategic partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of eu-russia relations. i am very pleased that the european parliament has clearly expressed itself against the violation of international law in this report, has clearly condemned russian aggression against ukraine, has put the current situation in the context of relations between russia and other states (georgia, moldova) and has stated that at present it is not possible for russia to continue to be considered as a strategic partner of the european union, because it is quite clear that it does not share the values held by the member states of the european union. until russia fundamentally changes its policy, it is not possible to treat it as a friend, a partner, but above all it is necessary to firmly oppose the aggressive policy of the great powers in the style of the soviet union.
in writing. ‒ developments in crimea and in eastern ukraine have considerably deteriorated the relations between the eu and russia and it cannot be business as usual anymore. with the adoption of this report, the european parliament points to the need to reassess its relations with russia. the situation is serious and i decided to support this report to send a strong signal and call on the russia authorities to respect international law. if we look at the conflict in ukraine, along with the annexation of crimea and the political destabilisation of some countries in the area, the eu cannot consider resuming normal relations with the russian government. but this does not mean that the eu should cut off all relations with the russians. on the contrary, the eu needs to develop a strong dialogue and cooperation with researchers, students, smes and russian civil society in general.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu's tactics against russia because i consider russia's involvement in the occupation of crimea to be a gross violation of the fundamental rights and values of developed countries. russia poses a threat to the security and stability of the eu as a whole, and in particular of eastern europe. as a result of the annexation of crimea and the events in ukraine, there has been a de facto departure from the concept of a strategic partnership. i still believe that we should consider russia as a partner of the eu in the future, but i do not think it is behaving as a reliable partner at the moment.
it is a coincidence that there will be two czech speeches in a row, but it is not a coincidence that we have very similar views with our colleague pospíšil. citizens in the member states rightly expect us to make energy security a priority and to try to find common ground and solutions. the issue of energy security is a key issue for us and an area where the eu can bring a great deal of added value, and it is therefore our duty to come up with an appropriate solution. i believe that we need to work towards making the eu and its member states less dependent on energy imports from outside the eu. i agree with many of the points made in the report, such as the need to speed up work on the necessary infrastructure, including possible funding from the eu budget. as for other eu countries, nuclear energy is also crucial for the czech republic, which has a great future for development. that is why i did not vote for the amendments which restricted it, and i am glad that those amendments were not adopted. in the end, no resolution was adopted, which is proof that we still have a very difficult debate ahead of us, but we are obliged to have it.
in writing. i voted against the eu's attempt to centrally regulate energy production throughout the eu. under the pretext of solidarity, member states with a stable energy grid should help those who have decided to build wind farms and close nuclear power plants instead of ensuring energy security.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on energy security in europe. i fully agree that energy security should be a key element of eu trade policy. however, i believe that the energy union project is too ambitious and i am not convinced that we will find a consensus at eu level on the support and preferences for different energy sources. i have long voted differently from my own group, which has problems with nuclear, for example. i'm also skeptical about setting binding targets. moreover, i still believe that the energy mix should remain in the hands of each member state, which is why i could not support the report in today's vote.
in writing. ‒ i am sorry that the draft energy security report has been rejected. i consider the issue of shale gas extraction to be a complex and still subject to debate in the scientific community, and it is still an open question for me rather than the reason for the fundamental political conflict which unfortunately took place during the vote and which was reflected in the report as a whole. i also regret the too reserved attitude of a number of members on the other side of the political spectrum. the report contained many positive elements, such as the promotion of new technologies, climate protection, energy efficiency measures and respect for the member states' power to decide on their energy mix, including nuclear energy, which the report explicitly identified as low-carbon. these elements contained in the report should definitely not fit. and i thank the reporter for her work.
in writing. ‒ i am very sorry that the european parliament today rejected the ambitious report on the european energy security strategy, on which i worked as a shadow rapporteur. some of the proposals seem to have been clearly too ambitious, notably promoting binding energy efficiency targets, or too controversial, such as nuclear energy, which has divided meps for many years. the moratorium on shale gas extraction was another sensitive issue and although the amendment in favour of a moratorium was approved by the plenary, it certainly left a bitter taste on the tongue of some colleagues and led them to reject the whole report. the votes against the report came from across the political spectrum, though for very different reasons. unfortunately, there was no support from the epp group either, whose members abstained or voted against their own rapporteur's report. today's vote showed the diversity of views across the ep on these sensitive issues. it is clear that we will have to have an intense debate, especially in view of the upcoming vote on the energy union report, where a similar clash of opinions can logically be expected.
in writing. ‒ the report on energy security by algirdas saudargas was voted down. i voted in favour of the report because i see energy security and independence as one of the most pressing issues for the eu, and therefore i regret that the ep decided to refuse this document. a number of my amendments, especially in the areas of the competiveness of eu industry, finance for infrastructure projects and indigenous energy sources, were included in compromise amendments, and that is why i decided to vote in favour. however, i voted against couple of amendments, especially on those calling on the commission to introduce binding targets for energy efficiency and new legislation in this field, which could potentially mean a new administrative burden. i also voted against amendments which could prejudice the sovereignty of states in terms of energy mix, for example by promoting only certain energy sources.
in writing. ‒ given the current situation, it is necessary to avoid the eu's dependence on russia and its energy resources by ensuring alternative supplies and better energy connectivity between member states. however, this report contains points that i have voted against in the past, whether it be binding renewable energy and energy efficiency targets for 2030 or calls to decarbonise the mix and prioritise renewables. this is in the hands of the member states, who cannot be dictated to by one model.
in writing. i am convinced that nuclear energy makes a significant contribution to the eu's domestic electricity production. and it allows european states at least partial independence. like renewable energy, nuclear energy has a positive impact on the environment and can contribute to better energy security in the eu and its neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ all member states, when they join the european union, commit themselves to respect the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, so it is hardly acceptable for a public figure, as prime minister, to speak openly in favour of breaching these treaties. the reintroduction of the death penalty, even in a hypothetical proposal, is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the opening of this subject is extremely unfortunate. i thought it appropriate to remind the representatives of hungary of this.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the situation in hungary. we criticise the recent statements by the hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, which have triggered a debate on the possibility of reintroducing the death penalty in hungary, as well as a public consultation on immigration. i agree with the call for all member states to participate in a constructive way in the current debate on the european agenda on migration, which equally affects the internal, external and development policies that need to be implemented in the eu. but as i am deeply convinced that it is the sovereign right of each member state to initiate national consultations which may, if necessary, result in the holding of a referendum on a particular issue, i see no reason why we should interfere with such a sovereign right in this case. i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the situation in hungary is urgent. with hungarian prime minister viktor orbán showing continuing signs of deviation from the fundamental eu values, i am very glad that parliament is taking a strong position, which is clearly reflected in the resolution we have adopted. the public consultation launched by the hungarian government in may is biased and unacceptable. by indicating a link between immigration and terrorism, and by trying to illustrate that people’s livelihoods are incompatible with the arrival of migrants, this questionnaire is misleading public opinion to serve political aims, and calling democracy and the rule of law into question. i therefore strongly support the immediate withdrawal of the questionnaire and the nullification of its findings. the eu is based on its fundamental values, one of which is that no eu citizen shall be executed. orbán’s repeated efforts to instigate a debate on reintroducing the death penalty must be condemned. bearing in mind too the deteriorating situation of ngos and journalistic freedom in hungary, i insist that the hungarian people deserve better and i am looking forward to the forthcoming pse congress in budapest for further debates on establishing an eu mechanism to ensure compliance with the union’s core values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary, which was adopted by parliament. the resolution condemns in strong terms the repeated statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, who instigated a debate on the re-establishment of the death penalty in hungary. prime minister orbán has, for years now, been repeatedly provocative, violating by his statements all eu principles. as i have repeatedly criticised prime minister orbán’s behaviour, i support this resolution and, moreover, i consider it a very important signal and a tool for the enforcement of european values.
i think it is right that the european parliament has adopted a resolution expressing its views on the situation in turkey. this report lists steps turkey should take to move closer to the eu. turkey is our strategic partner and our relations have often been very dynamic. on the one hand, we declare both the eu and turkey's willingness to develop them, and on the other hand, there are often situations in turkey that simply call into question the respect for the rule of law. the current developments in syria and iraq and the fight against terrorism also make turkey even more important as our partner, and it is good that the union is taking a fair approach to turkey. the need to motivate turkey to make positive changes is evident, and the parliamentary elections have shown the will of turkish society for political pluralism.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report assessing the progress made by turkey in 2014. there are a number of positive elements in the report. for example, the eu recognises turkey as one of its important strategic partners, points to the growth in trade as well as direct investment from eu countries, and objectively assesses progress at different levels for 2014. however, there are also some passages in the report with which i cannot identify, such as the eu's concern about closer cooperation between turkey and russia in the field of energy, as well as other points where the eu is, in my view, unduly interfering in the internal affairs of the state. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ turkey is one of the eu’s most crucial strategic partners, all the more so in the context of the union’s heated debates on energy security, migration and efforts to find peaceful solutions. with the newly elected government in turkey, parliament’s vote approving pre-accession support therefore came at a good time to show the ep’s firm stand on future cooperation. alongside the reforms we have witnessed, we must not ignore the serious concerns in turkey about press freedom, effective check-and-balance systems, gender equality and religious freedom, to name just a few. turkey must step up its efforts on the promotion of human rights and the rule of law, in accordance with the copenhagen criteria, to bring the accession negotiations forward. it is a pity that the urgent situation of turkey’s blockade of kobane is not addressed in the text as adopted. however, i rejoice that our proposal has been approved. with our sister parties, the hdp and chp, projected to secure 211 seats in the 550-seat turkish parliament, we look forward to fresh progress on bringing turkey closer to the eu, including on the promotion of political pluralism and equal minority rights for kurds, alevis, the roma and other groups.
in writing. i supported today's european parliament resolution on the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey, as i believe that it highlights all the elements of the european union-turkey relationship sufficiently. turkey is a member of nato, but it is not a strategic partner for us in the field of security alone, but also in the energy field or in the migration field, given its position. however, the interest in close cooperation with turkey does not preclude the possibility of drawing attention to the need for progress in the areas of judicial independence, the protection of the rights of women or religious minorities, freedom of the press, the fight against corruption or the need to maintain standard relations with neighbouring states and to provide equal treatment to all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this progress report on turkey. the alde group has introduced clear language into the report, calling on the commission to reassess the way in which negotiations have been conducted so far. moreover, the progress report makes clear that the rule of law, press freedom and freedom of expression are core values of the eu, which every country taking the path of accession should respect. by voting in favour of this report, i also wanted to welcome the election of the new turkish parliament and to call on the different political forces to work towards the establishment of an inclusive government which should reinvigorate the democratisation process in turkey and its reform dialogue with the eu.
i heard the term 'soft power' a few times yesterday in discussions on the eu-russia relationship. i respect the power of words and the power of argument. but soft power against a country that attacks its neighbors seems ineffective. in the third year, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about russian aggression, the third year. while we're using soft power, people are dying in ukraine. for the third year in a row, vladimir putin is mocking us. i therefore welcome the report by mr paşcu, which points to the changing security situation in the black sea and to russia's transformation of crimea into a new kaliningrad. that is why i welcome the demonstration of nato's military strength, which has begun naval military exercises in the baltic sea. that is why i welcome any sign of a willingness to defend our democracy and euro-atlantic values, including in the black sea. russia honors the toughest of opponents.
madam president, are these honourable members running the show now? are they giving me the floor? i say this to them: i can understand that you need to utilise every opportunity to draw attention to yourself. you are telling madam president that she is a disgrace. i must say that i had expected a lot from this group, but the way you are performing here today is really a disgrace. if you look at it, you are like small kids utilising the opportunity when there is a debate. we have got a commissioner here. we have got a serious debate on a serious issue. you are an absolute disgrace in terms of disrespect to the situation. i have not finished yet, sir. your absolute disrespect for the situation in burundi, a situation which is absolutely grave, with people being killed, a situation that is dramatic. you do not even allow the debate on the issue to be finished. are you serious about that? you do not have a single bit of respect for the situation to finish the debate, to have some kind of conclusion and to be able to vote. are you not ashamed? let this debate finish at least, you kids. you are not silent because you admitted that this is disgraceful from your side. you do not have ten minutes for what is happening today in burundi. it is an absolute disgrace, and if you want to reflect on undemocratic behaviour, then please leave and reflect – and take your time. that would be the best message.
madam president, i do not mind if people shout at me to shut up, as was the case of one of the honourable ukip gentlemen who was giving us a lesson on parliamentary democracy. if another gentleman calls me a fascist i think that is well beyond. i am sorry to say i do not know all the gentlemen by name, but i would expect an apology because myself and you and others are considered to be fascists.
madam president, first of all i would like to apologise to the visitors in the gallery, because they have not seen the best example of political culture today. when i defended the continuation of the debate on burundi – something as grave and sensitive as that – i was called a fascist, and the person did not even have the manhood to apologise. commissioner, i have to be very brief. i think that we received a number of relevant items of information from you, and we can see the efforts that the european union is making. what i missed – and i would appreciate it if you could pass this on to ms mogherini – is measures which we could inject into the framework of a common foreign and security policy so as really to exert pressure on the regime, and on the president, so that the situation does not deteriorate. that is something that i missed in your presentation. i understand that you were simply passing on information, but if we are to have genuine common foreign and security policy, and to avoid a deterioration of the situation and a repetition of examples that we have elsewhere on the continent, then this is what we need.
the question posed by the blue card. can i ask you a question, mr. fisasi? some 600 years ago, czech reformer jan hus described the corruption in the church this way: "dogs fight over a bone. take their bone and they'll stop fighting. wouldn't it help in this situation, mr. fisasi, if there were limits, financial limits, that would mean there would be no bone to fight over for these new predators?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, football is attracting ever more popularity and influence, thus attracting power and money. this comes with new challenges, and fifa clearly has proved unable to address them. fifa needs action from the outside world to clean up the organisation. it is now time for the public authorities to take the necessary steps to make sure the organisation applies an effective anti-bribery programme and that those in power are held accountable. this time fifa cannot pretend that the problem is a few corrupt officials. the fact that sepp blatter has been re-elected, even after the serious allegations of corruption around him, shows that national federations must take responsibility. they need to be part of the reform process. uefa has a role to play in paving the way towards more transparency, but the reform must be global. sepp blatter should stand down now and an interim president should be appointed. the selection of russia and qatar as hosts of the forthcoming world cups should be subject to re-examination. if there is any proof of misconduct in the qatar and russia decisions, these decisions must be immediately reversed. this resolution is a strong political message from all political groups addressed to fifa and its partners. it is high time for the sport sector, and in particular football, to implement the values it spreads: respect of rules, team spirit and fair play.
mr president, i looked into fifa’s statute, and it says that the objectives are about unifying, educational, cultural, humanitarian values, promoting integrity, ethics and fair play. but fifa also has its bodies: it is not just the president; it has a congress. our national federations are also a part of that whole institution. it has an audit committee and a committee looking after the observance of regulations. so it is a whole set-up. for me, fifa is a corrupt organisation. at a time when we see 14 officials, including a vice-president, arrested, and at a time when we have a scandal of major magnitude, still we have the election of sepp blatter. for me this is clear evidence that fifa is a corrupt and unreformable, unaccountable and non-transparent organisation. we need reform, but we do not need fifa-led reform. we need a new organisation, set up from scratch. i think we also need to address our national institutions and our national federations, because they will be a part of that exercise.
in just a few days, the first ever european games will begin, with 6,000 athletes from 50 countries competing for precious metals and a place at the rio olympics. the decision to hold the event in baku, azerbaijan, was made in december 2012. of the 48 representatives of the various olympic committees, 38 voted to hold the games in baku. i therefore believe that azerbaijan's mandate to host this event is strong enough and should not be questioned here. the european parliament has the right to express its opinion on the human rights situation in the country, but it should be aware that this upcoming event is primarily sporting in nature. i could not therefore support any resolution, especially before the council of europe, which i believe is far more competent, meets on this subject. in conclusion, let me wish the czech sports team in baku all the best. i hope that the european games will be a celebration of sport and not politicized in any way.
we have had many resolutions on syria in the european parliament, but this one is something special and exceptionally important. it's special because we've all come together as one man, as one man. the unesco heritage in palmyra is part of our heritage and we must protect it by all means possible. ladies and gentlemen, my main concern is that some of these artifacts may be leaking onto the black market and thus becoming a significant source of funding for other terrorist organizations and operations. but the resolution also touches on the human rights of the people living in the area. we, as members of the european parliament, unequivocally condemn the current situation and condemn the human rights violations by the regimes there. on behalf of my ppe group, i call for the fight against is to be systematic and based on the joint cooperation not only of european partners but also of local, regional and non-state actors. it's the only way we can succeed in the fight against isis.
we have already discussed the situation in syria and iraq here several times, but unfortunately it seems that the situation in these countries is getting worse and worse. once again, we were reminded of the takeover of palmyra by the so-called islamic state. the terror that these terrorists have brought to this ancient city shows us once again that these people are a threat to the universal values of all mankind regardless of religion. i would like to call on you today, in particular, to support those who are represented in our resolution today by mazin darwish and razan zaituní, those who, in extreme circumstances, continue to call attention to cases of human rights violations, discrimination against minorities and all other acts which can be considered as manifestations of crimes against humanity. with the so-called islamic state, we are fighting for the fundamental values of human civilization.
in writing. at first glance, the connection between the situation in palmyra and the case of mazen darviše may seem chaotic. but there is one important link: the conquest of palmyra by the islamic state is more than a symbolic defeat. it's a defeat in the geographical, historical and commercial heart of syria. it's a loss at the crossroads of cultures. it's a loss for all of us who refuse to accept the offensive of islamic fundamentalism. the arrest of lawyer and prominent anti-government activist mazen darviše in 2012 was a government act that is linked to the first phase of the civil war. western military, logistical, propaganda and diplomatic support for the anti-government rebels in syria, accompanied by the preparation of a libyan-style intervention, has dramatically increased the situation. this support has been instrumental in shaping the fighters of the so-called islamic state into a form that is not only unacceptable to the governments in damascus and baghdad, but also to the statesmen of the western powers. it is clear that the time has come to change strategic objectives, to redefine adversaries and allies. the european union is getting dragged into too many conflicts. whatever the moral or legal character of these actions, the union does not have the strength to fight on so many fronts. we need to take action wherever possible. and as part of that, to advocate for the freedom of activists like mazen darviš. only then do we have any hope of success.
president-in-office of the council,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for giving me, on behalf of the high representative/vice-president of the commission, the opportunity to brief you on the situation with regard to children’s rights in paraguay. in the past months, the sad and emblematic case of a pregnant ten-year-old girl in paraguay has attracted much attention worldwide. it has highlighted the vulnerability of children and adolescents to violence and sexual abuse in paraguay and many other countries in latin america, where child pregnancy is a serious problem. the eu is following the case and the protection of children’s rights in latin america more generally. there have been recent cases in other countries in the region as well as in other parts of the world. the european external action service (eeas) and the commission are in close contact with international organisations in paraguay, including un women, the un population fund and unicef. we europeans join their voices in calling for increased efforts to protect children against all forms of violence, including sexual violence, within and outside of the domestic sphere. the eeas and the commission also agree on the need for the authorities to step up prevention and increase awareness so that citizens know where to report abuse. the perpetrators must be brought to justice and the victims must receive adequate medical care and support. the eu continuously emphasises respect for children’s rights through cooperation and political dialogue. human rights, including children’s rights, were part of the discussions that took place last november in the ix eu-paraguay joint cooperation committee. we know that paraguay is confronted by economic and social challenges, poverty and inequality, making children particularly vulnerable. that is why we are supporting the government’s efforts to tackle poverty by supporting education and social protection. the eu is also financing human rights activities that support women, children and indigenous peoples. under the ‘non-state actors and local authorities in development’ programme, an eu-funded project aims to protect adolescents’ sexual and reproductive rights by raising awareness among young people, teachers and parents. the eu member states are also active. in line with the may 2015 council conclusions on gender in development and with the policy coherence for development principles, the eeas and the commission will continue working on sexual and reproductive health and rights and seek to advance understanding of the components and elements related to sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu’s development policy. children’s and women’s rights are eu human rights priorities in paraguay. the eu financially supports actions aiming to protect adolescents’ sexual reproductive rights through strengthening awareness among young people, teachers and parents, as already mentioned. we hope that the work we are doing with paraguay will contribute to the protection of the rights of children so that no child will have to suffer violence and sexual abuse.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – first of all, i am here to represent the high representative. the council was not invited. secondly, as i have already pointed out, the council, under the latvian presidency, has agreed conclusions on gender and development, as well as the policy coherence for development (pcd) principles. also, the gender action plan is being prepared. these are the very concrete eu measures which the council and the commission together are going to implement.
in writing.– today we stand firm in our strong condemnation of the denial of essential medical care to a ten-year-old rape victim. this is a tragic and disturbing case that is unfortunately far from isolated in paraguay and in other countries in the region. denying access to safe and legal abortion to an abused young girl is not only an immediate physical risk to her body, but it also ensures that she will continue to be victimised again through being forced to give birth to her rapist’s child. the government of paraguay must give priority to humanitarian and health concerns over religion, especially when a child is involved. physical and sexual exploitation of women is a serious human rights violation. further denying women an abortion, particularly in a case where their mental and physical health is at risk, extends the suffering of a victim in a cruel and unnecessary manner. paraguay must take immediate steps to fully implement the convention on the rights of the child.
author. every natural disaster is a tragedy that has a devastating impact on people's lives and the course of the country, but also of the region. and when these disasters happen in places like haiti and nepal, we lose the words to describe the situation. even before the first earthquake, nepal was not sufficiently urbanized, and poverty plagued the country. after several earthquakes in the last few weeks, 8 million nepalese people are in need of humanitarian aid, which is unfortunately running out. true, the inhabitants themselves are involved, but these are the actions of people who are desperate and in need of help. in particular, the revitalisation of health facilities and services in the country, especially in remote areas, including the provision of medical tents and equipment to replace health facilities that have been damaged and destroyed, is necessary. i believe it is the duty of the nepalese government and the international community to ensure that children who have been separated from their parents are reunited with their parents as soon as possible. it is necessary that children become the focus of humanitarian interventions. they must be given special attention because they are in a particularly sensitive situation. humanitarian workers have documented cases of malnutrition and threats of child abuse and trafficking. we stress the importance of bringing children back to school, but this will not be possible without a substantial and comprehensive effort by nepal and the international community. we cannot accept problems with customs procedures for humanitarian supplies. we demand the abolition of all so-called aid taxes imposed on humanitarian aid deliveries by the local police at the nepalese border. help should be delivered quickly to where it is needed, not used as a means of trade. i therefore call on the european parliament and all member states to do all they can to help nepal and its people get back on their feet. nepal's condition was not satisfactory before, but now it is completely disastrous. the danger of a third earthquake is real.
author.– madam president, nepal is in an ongoing state of emergency. international humanitarian aid has been – and will continue to be – crucial to both the immediate relief of the suffering there and, in the long term, for reconstruction of this beautiful country that i was honoured to visit once. respect for human rights must remain at the centre of all these efforts. i am appalled at reports that the most vulnerable groups are being discriminated against on the basis of their caste or gender. nepal must embrace its duty to protect all of its population, including the dalit community. no one should be denied basic aid, especially on the basis of who they are or where they come from. the disaster also threatens to deprive children of their basic right to education. with more than 7 000 schools damaged, education and the reconstruction of schools must remain a priority. it is our duty to do everything we can to help nepal return to a state of normality.
i would like to point out that i not only voted for this resolution, but i would also like to point out that the question of international law and the violation of international law in the case of the annexation of crimea was clearly stated by the council of europe, which is a body set up by states precisely to assess human rights issues and to assess issues of international cooperation between states. so many of the debates that are going on about the annexation of crimea are, in my opinion, pointless, and the issue of trade disruption is of course substantial, but i don't know if the trade aspect could prevail over the fact that one state is clearly illegally annexing the territory of another state and we should just look at it. i think that these views, that we should take this into account for the sake of business interests, are completely indefensible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe we need to do all that is in our power to help support the security of ukraine and the wider black sea region. the black sea is an important strategic region for all european security and should not be neglected in our policymaking. we should never accept the illegal annexation of ukrainian soil.
in writing. the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia is unfortunately another piece of european parliament material which creates an atmosphere of fear and prefers threats to friendly, diplomatic communication. i could not support him in the best of intentions, because i believe that it would be a better solution to the situation if both sides sat down at the negotiating table and realized that there are still many things and problems that unite us. in addition, the report stressed the need to coordinate the eu's approach with nato. however, there is no mention of how closer cooperation with a military organization can help to bring about a peaceful resolution of a diplomatically tense situation. the sentence was striking: (european parliament) feels that although nato cannot defend them directly, it has a moral obligation to help georgia and ukraine defend themselves. i personally believe that the european parliament, as a body which should help to find a consensus, should not resort to such formulations, because it is helping to create a war atmosphere throughout europe. moreover, i think it is wrong to ask the commission to support member states in their efforts to find a solution to increase their defence budget to 2%. after years of a hard belt policy, the eu should return to caring for its citizens and not to arming.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report because i am convinced that russia's new behaviour and russia's illegal occupation of crimea has created a fundamentally new situation to which we must respond. there is a firm and united position of the eu as a whole, which will not change its current position and will continue to consider the russian annexation of crimea as an illegal act in violation of the principles of international law. russia has acquired a base for further potential expansion through its annexation of crimea, and the eu should respond to the build-up of russian forces in crimea with concrete steps to ensure its own security.
in writing. i supported the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, as it rightly points to the need to develop a new eu security strategy for the black sea region. the situation in the black sea region has changed fundamentally since the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, which crimea has immediately started to use as a cornerstone of its aggressive policy in the black sea region and beyond. the resolution rightly calls for an active and united policy of eu and nato member states in the area and for an end to the cuts in defence budgets. the black sea is also a strategic area for the european union in the energy and migration fields, and there is therefore a need for the eu to actively and uncompromisingly promote its interest in energy supplies independent of russia and the possibility of effective protection of the eu's external borders.
in writing. ‒ the illegal annexation of crimea has created a significant change in the strategic landscape of the black sea basin and this is why the eu should pay particular attention to this region. if the wording of this report is in some cases, and in my point of view, not always appropriate, i nevertheless decided to vote in favour of this report as the eu needs to draw up, as soon as possible, a comprehensive eu strategy for the black sea region. the eu and its member states must have a security response to the challenges in this area.
in writing. ‒ it is in our interest to cooperate with russia in the long term, but in the current situation this is not possible. the eu's alliance and close cooperation with nato, a successful defence and military alliance, is important now, and this political crisis in relations with russia cannot be used as an argument for building parallel structures at european level.
i entirely agree with my colleague mr jahr and will only say that i do not think the eu should comment on everything. however, the problem of long-term corruption, which has been very obvious and has been written about in many periodicals, is an exception and the eu has a right to speak on this matter of football. i've played football, i've watched football, and i have to say that football is no longer, in my opinion, a beautiful game. it's not a great game because it's been discredited by the network that was built by the board or the top bodies of fifa. i'm glad that the position of the european football association, uefa, has been very clear from the beginning against corruption, and i think that fifa now has a unique opportunity to clean up, to really make football a beautiful game again.
in writing. ‒ fifa has seriously damaged the integrity of world football and its reform is inevitable. it is of the utmost importance that the circumstances in which the hosting of the world cup has been allocated to russia and qatar are properly investigated. if corruption has occurred, a new selection procedure must be carried out as soon as possible. i also consider it essential to call on the commission to monitor european anti-money laundering legislation and to ensure that laws are sufficiently effective to combat corruption in sport as well.
in writing. the international football federation (fifa) has faced many complications since its founding in 1904. although it seemed that the biggest problem for the organization of the world war, it turns out that fifa is not able to cope with itself in the first place. as football became a more lucrative business, corruption flourished within the organization, eventually crippling it. now, former fifa president sepp blatter led the organization through what on the surface seemed to be one of the most successful periods in history, but inside was a period of decay. even though fifa is officially a non-profit organization, other non-profits might be envious. but once again, big business has swallowed up what should be pure and joyful. at this point, the integrity of world football is seriously damaged. fifa's practices to date have had a devastating impact on the entire football pyramid from the top tiers of professional football to the amateur clubs at the lowest level, and it is time for redress. in spite of all that, i have decided to abstain from voting on the joint motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption within fifa. i believe that the change in the way the organization works should come primarily from the organization itself, with fifa focusing on what the fans say, rather than the supranational institution.
in writing. i supported the resolution in response to the recent developments in the international football association fifa. it is not about politics interfering in sport, but about declaring disagreement with the serious suspicion of tolerating or covering up corrupt or at least ethically questionable practices in world football. tolerance of this behavior gives the impression that it is acceptable, and then the question arises as to where the limits of such behavior lie. the most developed countries in the world, and that means the eu, should significantly reduce tolerance for such behavior wherever it affects them and their citizens. this is certainly true of football, which often enjoys various forms of public support.
in writing. i supported today's resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption in fifa. i believe that football, or sport in general, which is a very positive phenomenon of our time, as it contributes to the promotion of peace, respect for human rights, solidarity, the development of less developed societies, etc., must not be run by an organization operating on a corrupt basis. while respecting the principle of self-government, it is clear that such widespread and systematic corruption is no longer just a 'private' problem of a self-governing organisation, but a problem that needs to be addressed in the public interest. this solution is not only the resignation of the current leadership, but above all the establishment of a completely different system of operation and governance of fifa.
in writing. ‒ the recent revelations about fifa have seriously damaged the integrity of global football and this is why i voted in favour of this resolution. indeed the organisation needs urgent in-depth structural reforms. it is also important to underline that fifa is constituted of national federations and among them european ones. therefore, member states, in cooperation with interpol, europol and eurojust, should take all appropriate measures to tackle any possible indication of corruption of fifa officials or of a national football association on eu territory. by voting in favour of this resolution i also wanted to underline that this scandal is not just another financial crime accomplished by rich and powerful men, but that these actions have a real implication on human rights. the most obvious example is qatar. the decision to award the 2022 world cup to a state with a terrible human rights record has a real impact on the people working to build the infrastructure for this competition. this is why i believe the award of the world cup for 2022 should be invalidated if evidence emerges that the awards only came about as a result of corrupt activities.
in writing. the recent economic crisis has clearly demonstrated that the current framework for economic governance in the european union is not optimal. the fact that the euro area is unable to meet its objectives of sustainable growth, high employment, social progress and stability cannot be ignored. nor can we ignore the serious economic disparities between member states, whether they are manifested in the different levels of economic growth, unemployment or the current account balance of payments. it is unthinkable that we should wait for another crisis and delay reforming the current inefficient system. the heads of state cannot turn a blind eye to this problem and must start looking for a long-term solution. we need a stronger economic and fiscal union based on democratic principles. in this context, i would like to stress that it is very important to stimulate discussion not only at the highest level of the european union. national parliaments, but also other stakeholders, need to be invited to discuss the reform of the existing system. moreover, the debate must be open to non-euro area countries. the treaty of lisbon provides that all member states of the european union, with the exception of the above-mentioned countries, are to join the euro area. it's time to change the current system to a model that's more democratic, more transparent and much simpler. without fundamental reform, the union will never become what it set out to be: a competitive, solidary, sustainable and democratic grouping.
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to know if you see a parallel between tax avoidance and lower taxation in some member states? the second question is whether you consider this commission proposal to be sufficient. do you, like me, lack a greater "tax-parenting" in this proposal?
i personally welcome this initiative and this action plan, but i would not go down the path of punishing someone and reversing it. so i brought you a solution that's called (speaker speaking in english) and this is for translation, taxparency, not translated as transparency, taxparency. my solution is taxparency this is actually a smart tax solution from a neuroeconomic perspective. the point is, we're not going to punish companies for not paying taxes, but we're going to motivate them to pay taxes, that is, we're going to make a tax base that is acceptable to companies in the corporate tax area. just as i buy from companies that are labeled "fair trade", i would like to spend my money on companies that are labeled "tax transparency". i think that's the answer to when the states criticize you for going into legislation that belongs to the member states. tax transparency is voluntary and it's the only possible response to luxleaks and other similar cases.
in the coming days, the european council will hold another round of negotiations on migration. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the heads of state to act with real responsibility. millions of citizens in the european union expect this negotiation to bring a solution. a solution that is solidary, but also means greater security. i'm glad that europe is finally waking up, starting to act. unfortunately, our april resolution in the european parliament is often reduced by the media to a question of compulsory quotas, which i personally reject. not only the eu's executive institutions, but also the authorities of the member states are too slow to react. i would point out that back in december 2014, we adopted a resolution here in the european parliament calling for a comprehensive approach to migration, for strengthening and protecting borders, for speeding up the processing of asylum applications and for returning those who are not entitled to it. i want the union to be accessible and more europe where it really matters for our security. then we'll pick up the arguments from the various extremists who are feeding off the current populist wave.
i would like to talk about something that is not talked about much in the european parliament, and that is the so-called investigation. the european union and its institutions are trying to cut back on their spending as much as possible, and i personally support this very much, but i would like to mention one problem where this is really not working at all. i have been informed, repeatedly by several agencies, that the european commission requires all agencies to translate their texts in a so-called translation centre. the idea seems very good, but according to cost calculations, translations through the european translation centre can be twice as expensive as if the countries themselves translated it, or the agencies translated it in the countries. an example is eurojust. i would therefore ask the european commission to really start tackling this problem and not try to centralize everything in brussels at any cost.
at this late hour, i'll take the liberty of making it a little shorter and lighter. i personally consider the proposal to be a great success, not only for the european parliament. it is important that the european union is able to respond to the current situation and i would like to thank the juncker commission for this whole initiative. i believe that drawing on this fund, as it is currently set up by law, will not only be beneficial to the individual actors but will above all demonstrate a great added value for the european union. however, the important question that remains unanswered for me is the level of private sector involvement in the projects, and i am confident that mr juncker will give us a thorough answer in the coming days.
in writing. ‒ i am against the eu directing investment to revive the economy. this money had to be collected from taxpayers first. such redistribution of money will not restore economic growth, but will, on the contrary, weaken it even further.
in writing. i supported the report on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) regulation because i believe that the establishment of the fund can be a much-needed boost for the european economy. by being willing to take on higher risks than commercial banks or the european investment bank, the fund could make investments that would not otherwise be made. i also welcome the fact that the ep has managed to secure the preservation of eur 1 billion in the important horizon 2020 and cef programmes. i would like to urge the czech government to reconsider its refusal to contribute to the efsi budget and to follow the example of poland, the first non-euro area country to do so, and slovakia, the most recent and so far last.
‒ the european fund for strategic investments must be seen as a priority of current european policy, which is why i voted in favour of this instrument. the fund, as the financial backbone of the juncker investment package, is essential to break the economic stagnation and to promote sustainable and inclusive investment. it is clear that we need a strong economy, new, quality jobs and member states that are not bound by the stability and growth pact to support structural investment more than is healthy. i supported a more democratic governance structure for the fund, which means a greater say for the european parliament in the choice of the director of the management board responsible for the day-to-day running of the fund. given the volume of funding with which the fund and the european investment bank will operate, i also supported a greater degree of reporting and hearings to ensure more effective democratic scrutiny. i would like to note that i voted in favour of the alternative proposal for the financing of this instrument, mitigating the negative financial impact of the creation of the fund on the horizon 2020 and connecting europe facility programmes. it would be very unwise to shift funds from budget lines where there is more than is needed, while there is another and far more appropriate budgetary space.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this draft regulation. the newly created fund promises to stimulate long-term economic growth. the eu will guarantee public funds, making loans available for selected projects. within 3 years, the plan should mobilise new investments up to an expected eur 315 billion. the fund also offers the possibility of implementing projects which would not have been possible (due to their higher risk) with investments provided in the conventional way. approximately 1⁄4 of the fund's resources will be allocated to projects for smes and mid-cap companies. however, i think it is right that these projects should be selected according to certain criteria. in particular, these will be economically and technically feasible projects focusing on infrastructure development, research, innovation, education or energy. the latter is what i see as an important element for the czech republic, namely the possibility of reducing dependence on russian gas imports in connection with projects focusing on interconnecting energy systems. lastly, i would also like to emphasise the fact that the efsi is expected to create up to 2 million new jobs over the next 5 years (i.e. by 2020) (and probably another 1-2 million by 2030), which represents a significant contribution to the fight against unemployment in the eu.
in writing. i supported the regulation on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which is an important element of the investment plan for europe, which is designed to encourage long-term economic growth and competitiveness. this fund will help to draw on public resources, including the eu budget, to enable private investment. over three years, it is expected to bring in up to eur 315 billion in new investment across the eu. the juncker investment plan will focus on the interconnection of broadband, energy and transport networks, and will also promote education, research and innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote in favour of the report on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). this fund, if correctly implemented and if the commission and member states deliver on their promise that it will attract additional investment in the fields of research, innovation, energy and transport, can then have a real added value and boost investments to enhance european competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed in principle to the eu contribution to the fund at the expense of the cuts in horizon 2020 and cef that we have negotiated with difficulty. on the other hand, we have now managed to save at least basic research under horizon 2020. i also think we should give the fund a chance. in the end, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am against the increase in expenditure linked to the globalisation adjustment fund. the european union should not interfere with the natural development that firms can best manage themselves, as long as the market is not distorted by regulations and subsidies.
dita charanzová (alde),in writing. – i voted against the beres report as i do not believe we should weaken the economic tools needed to ensure minimum responsibility between governments and their budget planning. today, europe is in crisis exactly because governments did not respect budget discipline or the growth and stability pact. i do not believe that if we weaken the current rules, as this report calls for, we will be helping to move ourselves away from the crisis, nor will it help us prevent the next one. we need actions to help growth and job creation, but uncontrolled spending is not the answer.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing recession have prompted the european union to start overhauling its economic governance system. the eu established three authorities to better supervise the financial markets, improved mechanisms to oversee and coordinate fiscal policies, created procedures to correct economic imbalances, and launched a banking union. while the reform process is still ongoing, it is crucial that the eu evaluates the current economic governance framework and works on the next steps to follow to improve it. this was supposed to be the aim of this key report which, in my view, failed to reflect the economic realities facing europe today and to address the ongoing euro crisis. among other things, the report calls for a weakening of the stability and growth pact, which would be a backwards step for europe. with such watered-down compromise report, the parliament proved unable to match the ambition of the five presidents’ report released last week.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not agree with any challenges that could lead to a greater centralisation of economies towards the eu in the future. the economic crisis cannot be solved by centralisation, but by respecting the sovereignty of the nation states and allowing tax competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a report which i consider to be a reasonable compromise. in particular, i appreciate that the report does not create room for relaxing the existing eu economic governance rules as regards the legal framework for six-pack and two-pack. the key point of the report, which calls for strengthening and simplifying the european semester without changing the existing legal framework, is retained in the report and should thus serve as a safeguard against any attempts to break or relax the rules of fiscal discipline. the flexibility already in place deserves a cautious and reserved attitude, much less is it necessary or desirable in my view to increase it. too much flexibility and little respect for the rules were largely behind the eu debt crisis, the resolution of which affected many countries.
‒ the european union and the euro area in particular have reached a point where it is necessary to start discussing the reform of the economic system. it is not possible to continue to accept 28 different policies of individual member states if their coordination does not work effectively. a union with a resilient economy and the capacity to deliver growth and social protection for its citizens is needed. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the review of the economic governance framework. i supported the proposal calling for better coordination of member states' social policies, including the minimum wage and the fight against long-term unemployment. i also called on the european commission to exercise the greatest possible caution in its assessment of the budgetary situation in the member states. the practical consequences of ill-considered, economically restrictive decisions may be immature in the current fragile growth situation. i therefore also supported the european parliament's stronger involvement in the european semester process, which must ultimately create a fairer economic, fiscal and social environment. i am deeply convinced that if we can make the current, very confusing procedures into a simpler and more transparent system, not only will the responsibility of the member states and the european institutions be improved, but also the necessary trust of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report as it fails to reflect and respond to europe’s ongoing financial crisis and to propose appropriate measures for the future of the economic governance. by this vote, i also wanted to express my concern after it called for a weakening of the stability and growth pact. finally by adopting such a report the parliament proved to be unable to match the ambition of the five presidents’ report released last week.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me to thank in particular the rapporteur, who has taken on her task with real responsibility, and i think that it has not always been easy with us as shadow rapporteurs. however, it has produced a document and a report which is very ambitious and i firmly believe that the commission will accept it and will be a real basis for what we will be discussing here in the european parliament in the coming years. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has therefore approved this report by a near majority, and this too shows that we have perhaps found a compromise which is possible. however, let me also make a few critical remarks. i have been working quite intensively on the issue of waste management since my days in the national parliament, and i know how complex and treacherous this subject is, and that the old adage 'the road to hell is paved with good intentions' applies especially to this legislation. i would therefore like to emphasise once again that it is important to set realistic targets that can be achieved in real time, i.e. only those that are based on appropriate scientific evidence and analysis. let me raise one objection now. it's not just a percentage. some of you have already spoken about this here, but there is nothing worse than setting values and targets in terms of percentages, which the member states will simply bypass because they are unable to meet them in practice without causing major economic problems. and they're not able to fulfill them, especially in the time horizon. i ask the commission to adopt impact studies for all member states individually for this very binding document. if we want to implement it, we must implement it in such a way that the member states take it as their own and not as a regulation from us in brussels.
madam president, the dairy sector is a key sector of agri-food production and the czech republic is no exception. however, this sector also has a great potential for employment, as already mentioned. but he's got big problems today, and we need to deal with them. it is clear that the commissioner is also looking for a positive solution and has stressed the importance of the market mechanism. i agree with him, but at the same time we must accept that milk producers face difficult conditions, demanding environmental and hygiene requirements, the effects of the russian embargo, a very unstable market and low milk purchase prices. i therefore agree with the european parliament's call for the european commission to come up with new instruments to help stabilise the situation on the milk market and make milk production more attractive. the new measures should aim at strengthening producer organisations and enhancing their competitiveness.
madam president, it is hardly possible to cover all the aspects of the problem under consideration, namely the fall in milk prices, in one minute. i would like to draw attention to one aspect. it's pointless to push the market if the market is working properly. if it doesn't work, i think some kind of intervention is needed. i would suggest that the response at european union level should be to adjust the intervention price for milk and to introduce export refunds on an exceptional basis in order to find new outlets for surplus milk on the european market. of course, this is a cumulative effect, whereby the russian embargo is pushing milk out of this market and this surplus should be solved by finding corresponding new markets. i think that would be the commission's main task, and i hope that the commissioner will continue to deal with this issue.
rapporteur.– madam president, i welcome the opportunity here to present a report which has already been adopted by the committee on international trade (inta), with contributions from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and the committee on development (deve). the report looks into the european union’s common commercial policy and its impact on so-called public—private partnerships (ppps). as everybody knows, ppps are arrangements where the public sector and private sector act together in order to deliver certain types of services of general interest to the public. those services could be, for instance, infrastructure, like roads, public transport, power plants or water treatment plants. they could also be some kind of social services, like health care or education. last, but not least, in recent years, they could be realised in the field of innovative high-tech sectors. what is important to stress is that they are not current practice in well—developed countries, but they are becoming more and more important and widely used by donors in developing countries. ppp projects account for roughly 15% to 20% of total infrastructure investments in those countries. the report concentrates mainly on two aspects of ppp projects. one is, of course, the eu’s own interests, which means promotion of eu trade interests. participating in ppp projects provides eu companies with a great opportunity to grow and to gain new markets, if we take into account the current market conditions, slow economic recovery and the remaining high levels of unemployment in europe. we can all agree, i hope, that european companies can achieve growth only if they go international and enter other non-european markets. therefore, we have to build success stories, models and good practices concerning ppps to encourage our companies to go there. we also have to create things like one-stop shops or user-friendly platforms. we should use the good experiences of institutions already engaged in those projects, like the european investment bank and others. at the same time there is another goal, namely pursuing our development agenda. this is a crucial point. i think that we can create synergies with our development objectives by pursuing ppp projects. we all know that massive investments are required in developing countries in terms of infrastructure, energy supply or access to water. a substantial part of this funding will need to come from the private sector, where ppp can play a crucial role. of course we also have bad examples, particularly in some developing countries where ppps were in trouble. there were badly designed projects, engineering problems, too much bureaucracy, delays in realisation and poor project management. that is also why it is so important to work towards a common approach to tackling all those challenges. i think that this report could play a positive role in that. this report, i need to stress, does not make any attempt to establish new legislation or bureaucracy or anything like that. it just urges the eu institutions to take the necessary steps on the existing playing field to promote the participation of eu companies in ppp projects. it has been prepared in a spirit of very good cooperation between the political groups and committees. i hope that it will be received as well by the plenary of the european parliament.
member of the commission.– madam president, i am here tonight representing commissioner malmström, our trade commissioner, and she would like to thank the rapporteur mr zahradil and the committee on international trade (inta) for their valuable work on this report. the report underlines the high importance of public-private partnerships as a tool for economic growth, innovation and job creation. this has been the case in the eu and is increasingly true in our neighbourhood and in developing countries further afield. the report also underlines the opportunity provided by eu trade and investment policy in negotiations to promote public-private partnerships in third countries and thereby increase the market access of eu companies in this area. the commission welcomes the report’s call for improved transparency and fair competition in public-private partnerships in international trade relations. we will continue to strengthen efforts to include public-private partnerships to the greatest extent possible within the government procurement chapter of international trade agreements. indeed, there are many points expressed in the report with which the commission fully agrees and certainly welcomes. i want to give you some examples. firstly, that public-private partnerships can foster innovative solutions and mobilise long-term private finance, facilitating complex projects in the public interest, notably in the infrastructure sector or other capital-intensive sectors. secondly, that cooperation between the private and public sectors can foster innovation, research and development through increased competition. thirdly, the importance of facilitating the participation of smes in public—private partnerships. finally, ppps give opportunities abroad, which can increase european companies’ market access in government procurement in countries outside the eu and redress the asymmetry between eu and other countries’ levels of openness in government procurement. at the same time, these represent great opportunities for developing countries to create wealth and develop the infrastructures that are needed for business. the commission had welcomed the references in the rapporteur’s draft report to the positive synergies of public procurement and investment protection policies. in this regard, the commission would have preferred a more explicit acknowledgment of the need to employ the eu’s investment policy to ensure that assets invested by eu investors in the context of long—term projects in third countries are effectively protected, including by negotiating adequate and impartial means of resolving potential problems. the commission will be taking careful note of all of the recommendations made in this report and will continue to strengthen its efforts to ensure that the opportunities provided by ppps can be best utilised. be assured also that i will pass the comments that you make today to my colleague cecilia malmström who, as i mentioned, is the commissioner in charge.
in writing.– as the rapporteur of the imco opinion and alde inta shadow rapporteur, i welcome the very good and balanced message sent by this report. the key point for me has been to focus on how to improve public private partnership projects and how to support the work of european companies in foreign and developing markets. i believe we have achieved this. ppps are a major potential source of growth for our european companies and in the case of development ppps, a way that our european companies can help to do good works in the world. we have to work to encourage fair and transparent access to external ppps for our firms. this is especially true for our smes, who should be encouraged to take part in the sub-contracting chain or as part of consortiums. the eu and our member states must be more proactive in our trade and investment policies on ppps. this should be clear in our agreements with third countries. i ask the commission to also work to increase the use of ppps in our eu development aid policy. ppps could be an effective way to spend development aid while allowing our limited budgets to go further.
in writing. mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job. i welcome the continued efforts to make public transport more attractive. people using public transportation plan their door-to-door travel. unfortunately, there is currently no system that allows you to buy a single ticket for the entire route you are considering. it is often very difficult to find information on connections, connections and prices. therefore, a clear framework is needed to support the efforts of all stakeholders and competent authorities to make substantial progress in this area. the main benefits of the unification of ticketing systems should be the easy provision of information to all groups of the population, including people with reduced mobility, the real-time search of multimodal routes and the purchase of a single ticket for the entire intended route. that is why i support this report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– mr president, we want a smart ttip. i will read every line to make sure it is so, and i would like to ask my colleagues to start thinking globally about the ttip negotiations. in this debate today, let us focus on the important strategic questions about ttip and europe. how will we benefit from international trade if we fail to act on ttip? what will happen to european standards as china rises if we are not part of the global decision-making process? what will happen to the 31 million jobs that depend directly on exports, and will europe continue to have to get its energy sources from authoritarian governments? a smart ttip is a tool to address all these questions. ttip is more than just an economic agreement: it is a geopolitical agreement. while making us stronger economically, it will help to confirm us as leaders in the world. i believe it would be an unacceptable mistake to miss this chance.
madam president, the european union has not had much success. she can't solve the refugee crisis, the quotas she's devised only pitted the individual states against each other. and even the single currency, which was supposed to be the backbone of the european union, is proving to be a failure, as something that pits the nations of europe against each other, as the eurozone crisis shows. in this situation, we need some positive signal. i believe that a successful ttip negotiation can be that positive signal, and it's not just about economic benefits, it's also about geopolitics. we need to show that europe and the united states of america are two sides of the same coin, that they are two components of the euro-atlantic civilization, that they should play together, not against each other, in terms of security, politics and economics. we must start acting rationally, we must put aside our prejudices and we must confront the wave of ideological anti-americanism that is sweeping europe, whether it comes from the left or the right. europe needs this treaty more than the united states. if not, the americans can turn to the pacific after all. they'll have their trans-pacific treaty, europe will have nothing, at best we'll have a reputation in the world as an incompetent organization that can't even negotiate a trade treaty. i believe that common sense will prevail in the european parliament this time, it has not been so many times in the past, so i will be happy to see it prevail this time.
madam president, i have a simple decision to make on ttip. i am very much in favour of free trade between europe and the united states of america. i'm all for removing the cells. but on the other hand, i'm very strongly against the isds being part of the treaty. what is this idea that companies can sue states for wasted investments? states should of course compete for investors, but not cheat each other by offering easy compensation at the expense of the taxpayer. states are supposed to compete for investors with low taxes, they're supposed to compete for investors with a functioning justice system, but not like this. that's why i'm voting for the treaty, as long as it's free trade and doesn't include an isds arbitration clause. i'm for free trade, but i'm against this ttip.
madam president, i do not think there is anybody in this house who wishes to have a bad ttip, or an unbalanced ttip, or to lower the standards. i am sure the commission has no other interests either. i should also say that we should have more confidence in our negotiations and in our ability to monitor and control. this brings me to the conclusion and to the view that the main reason why we differ, why we see and hear all these arguments, is that we just have different perceptions. we have different perceptions on free trade, current geopolitics and so on. so i think this is a fair assessment, and if that is the case, i think we should say so. i have listened very carefully to the commissioner. madam commissioner, i have understood you very well and i have full confidence in what you have said. in fact, i would like to say one important final thing. nobody in this house has said today, on the basis of this or that agreement, that we have reason to be concerned. why? because there is no similar agreement from the past that would justify some of the arguments that we are hearing on the far left or far right. the reality is that there would be only positive... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to respond to some of the objections that have been raised here, but what i consider most fundamental is the lack of trust. it seems to me that in the negotiations to be held by the european commission, we are lacking our own confidence in the commission to negotiate an agreement that is acceptable to the member states and to europeans. at the same time, it's as if there's a lack of trust in the united states of america, as if it's not our most natural partner, as if it's not our partner that shares our own values. i don't know who else some of my colleagues would want to negotiate a free trade agreement with, whether it's russia or china, whether those countries represent the values that we can rely on in the united states of america. that is why i would call for us to have more faith in the institutions that we elect ourselves and that we should have confidence in negotiating a mutually balanced and good agreement. i believe in it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nomination of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as the new member of the european court of auditors, as i believe that she will bring a wealth of experience to the post from both the danish and international audit environment. her resume shows that she has excellent education and qualifications for this position and over 25 years of experience in the audit field. mrs jakobsen convinced us that one of her key priorities was transparency, zero tolerance for corruption and fraud and continuous improvement and strengthening of the use of public resources. these are the key aspects we need from the members of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as this is merely a consolidation of the existing text and does not change the original legislation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation allows for the use of eu procedures in its common commercial policy with the aim to ensure that the eu makes full use of its rights under international trade rules, especially those of the world trade organization. it deals particularly with rules that concern obstacles to trade affecting the eu market and those impacting the market of third countries. i voted in favour of the regulation because i believe that a consistent and unified approach will bring more clarity and facilitate international dispute settlement for the eu industries and enterprises as well as individual member states.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous report, this is only a codification of the existing text, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ selling of vessels at a lower price than the normal value harms the eu industry and its producers and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. the regulation makes it possible for the european commission to launch an investigation and impose charges on the builders of injuriously priced vessels, which should deter them from setting uncompetitive export prices. i fully support the need to set out precise and transparent rules on the calculation of the normal value and the export price voiced in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i consider that this is a matter for france and therefore parliament should not take a position on it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which brings a legal solution to cooperation on fisheries between french guiana and venezuela that has been going on for decades, however without any international agreement between the eu and venezuela. the processing of fishery products represents an important source of income and jobs for french guiana. to some extent, its processing industry depends on fishing by venezuelan vessels on condition that part of the catch is landed in local ports. this resolution aligns the agreement with the eu legislation and delivers an appropriate framework for fishing in this area.
in writing. ‒ as i am generally in favour of using taxpayers' money as economically as possible, i am opposed to further redistribution of funds saved in one year. this money is to be returned to the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the event of an emergency, i am in favour of solidarity between states and citizens. i am in favour of european countries helping each other, but not with an eu central fund that redistributes money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this adjustment of the 2015 budget in order to support a quick response to the emergency situation faced by romania, bulgaria and italy. these countries were hit by disastrous floods in spring and summer 2014. the amount of eur 66.5 million in total that they will receive will help them repair part of the damage, both in the public and private sector.
in writing. i supported the proposal to release funds from the solidarity fund for flood-affected countries, because it is a use of funds that is entirely in line with the fund's purpose, which is to express solidarity and provide financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund. romania, bulgaria and italy which suffered from severe floods in spring and summer 2014 applied to mobilise the fund so that they could receive a financial contribution to cover to some extent the cost of the emergency measures they took during the disaster. i believe that the eu should show solidarity with the citizens of romania, bulgaria and italy and i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. on 7 july 2015, we voted in plenary on the report of the committee on transport and tourism on the introduction of an integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe. in my view, this is precisely the area where the eu should fully exercise its powers and unify the fragmented regulation across all member states. a common eu-wide multi-modal travel system, including both an information, scheduling and ticketing system, should be a long-term goal, enabling customers to obtain comprehensive travel information for air, rail, sea and road transport. all european public transport operators should publish specific data sets, including all the information necessary to enable eu citizens to choose the most sustainable, cheapest or fastest mode of transport. since the report by mr koch met my requirements on this issue, such as, in particular, fair, inclusive and equal access to free or low-cost online services for all passengers and strong protection of passenger rights in all modes of transport, i decided to support this document.
in writing. i was very happy to support the proposal to integrate the ticketing system for multimodal travel within europe, as i see it as another step in facilitating free movement within the eu. the integration of this type of ticket will also strengthen the unity of the internal market and the competitiveness of companies in the transport sector. however, it is also important that the implementation of this measure protects personal data and prevents the accumulation and leakage of passenger data in the central integrated system.
in writing. today i supported the report on the introduction of an integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe, the main objective of which is to facilitate the mobility and travel of eu citizens and visitors from third countries, thereby promoting not only tourism and the fundamental rights of travellers, but also other areas of transport that ultimately have an impact on the economy as a whole. it also aims to help better integrate the different modes of transport and make more efficient use of existing infrastructure, which will in particular help to reduce air pollution and congestion. it targets problems of large agglomerations in particular. other objectives include promoting social mobility through the transmission of traffic information facilitating transport for disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility (e.g. boarding and disembarking). last but not least, the report supports the development of technological information systems which are essential for interoperability, which is stepping up the development of integrated multimodal services in the field of travel information, planning and ticketing in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i was shadow rapporteur on this report and gave it my full support. it is more than time that we take mobility in europe a step further by allowing travel across europe with one single ticket covering train, plane, bus and bike trips. we already have such services for goods but are missing it for people. this report is paving the way towards achieving better interoperability of the different modes of transports across the eu. efficient journey planning and accessible information are key elements in this respect: passengers should have access to comprehensive, accurate and neutral information regarding the different possible connections and respective timetables. this initiative by the european parliament sets a framework to allow for changes and for the transport sector to jump into the digital age. now, it is up to the businesses across europe to make it happen. a large gap for investments and innovations just opened and i am calling on european companies to make good use of it.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of an integrated ticketing system for travel across europe covering more than one mode of transport. i believe that such an initiative will contribute to the sustainability of european air, rail, sea and road transport. the simplification of interstate connections and better information will be of great benefit to passengers, among other things.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the mandate of the taxe committee. the work of the committee is essential to highlight bad practices of member states and develop sustainable solutions to avoid this kind of behaviour happening again in the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amending budget which reallocates eur 1.36 bn in funds within the european union budget to kick start the european fund for strategic investments. at a time of reluctance across the eu to invest due to the difficult economic climate, the efsi should encourage public-private partnerships to flourish and unlock funds of up to eur 315 bn in the next three years. it should lead to the improvement of infrastructure, including broadband and energy networks, provide vital financing for smes and get the continent growing again.
in writing. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the proposal to create a european fund for strategic investments was reportedly the 'most important' proposal put forward by european commission president juncker at the formation of the new european parliament. i have said several times that his plan, which he presented in january of this year, is anything but a real investment plan. this plan is a kind of caricature of a real investment plan, as it does not bring any new money into the system, does not bring much needed and urgent change in individual policies, nor does it contribute to the spread of the trend of increased public investment. in my view, the first thing that was needed was to create a real public investment plan through the issuance of new money from the ecb and the eib. but we were not really presented with anything like that. however, since only the draft amending budget was voted on, the european fund for strategic investments already exists and therefore needs to be balanced in some way, and the current interinstitutional agreement is of far better quality than the original proposal, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the current economic growth of less than half a percent in the european union suggests that this is not the time to cut back. on the contrary, we must find a suitable way to revive it as quickly as possible. that is why i voted in favour of the amending budget drafted by my colleague, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial. on the basis of this report, the payment appropriations of eur 10 million needed to establish the european investment advisory hub will be allocated. the centre represents one of the three main pillars of the juncker investment plan for europe, which is expected to create up to 1.3 million jobs and will focus on several key areas. this will include investments in energy, environment, research and development and transport infrastructure. i am convinced that the plan will only work reliably if there is a place where future investors or public authorities can turn if needed. as it will help applicants identify, prepare and develop projects, the centre will be a key link in the selection process for promising projects. i am pleased that the commission has promised to balance the budget for the iter programme in the future, from which payment appropriations for the centre will be transferred and which is not urgently needed at the moment. it would be very inappropriate to withhold funds from european programmes that do not have a sufficient financial cushion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amending budget which reallocates eur 1.36 billion in funds within the european union budget to start the european fund for strategic investments. efsi is an important step to improve the economic and investment situation on the continent. if properly implemented it will provide vital financing for smes and for the european economy in general.
in writing. ‒ i support the budget adjustment responding to the migration influx across the mediterranean and the tragedies directly related to this. the european parliament has committed to putting finances in place to immediately address the problem and to prevent more deaths at sea. the reallocation of eu funds provides additional resources in 2015 for new and enlarged border patrols from frontex, as well as its search and rescue operations triton and poseidon. rightfully, this is the immediate focus of europe in terms of the debate on migration. i am pleased that this budget adjustment does not enter into the debate regarding the resettlement of migrants, which is a separate question. i repeat my opposition to mandatory quotas imposed on eu member states.
in writing. i supported today's report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 responding to migratory pressures, as i believe that the current situation in the mediterranean requires an adequate response, including in terms of funding the union agencies involved in addressing the situation. frontex, easo and europol can contribute to effective coordination between member states and must be adequately equipped, in particular with staff, to this end. this is not just a question of security in the narrow sense, but more generally of making effective use of the current instruments available to the member states or the union. their effective use is a prerequisite for the establishment of an area of security and justice and this effective use must be pursued before new measures are introduced. it may also be added that this is not an increase in appropriations but only a transfer of appropriations within chapters.
in writing. ‒ i support the budget adjustment responding to the migration influx across the mediterranean and the tragedies directly related to this. this provides additional resources for new and enlarged border patrols from frontex, as well as its search and rescue operations triton and poseidon.
in writing. the draft eu milk and milk products sector outlook report review of the implementation of the milk and milk products package deals primarily with the implementation of the milk and milk products package (the 'milk package') which is valid from 3 october 2012 to 30 june 2020. the report notes that milk producers are particularly vulnerable to market and price fluctuations. the current situation is negatively affected by the russian embargo. the milk package has reportedly a low level of implementation. the report recommends that the potential of long-term contracts be used more fully. it also proposes that more use be made of promotional measures and that the protected designation of origin and geographical indication be better treated. the report also stresses that the current measures of the ten-t safety net, such as public intervention and private storage, are not sufficient and calls on the european commission to introduce additional safeguard measures. i therefore voted in favour of the report without hesitation, because it is in the interest of the czech citizens that the european commission take further action to stabilise the milk market.
in writing. on 31 march 2015, after 30 years, the eu ended the milk quota regime, posing a major challenge to the entire milk and milk products sector, which is characterised by price volatility, high demand for milk on the market, but also by the complicated situation of primary producers. the european parliament recommended a number of measures to better manage the end of quotas and to increase the future competitiveness of the milk and milk products sector, to find new export markets and to improve technologies for sustainable production. in this respect, i would like to emphasise the role of the 2012 milk package, which strengthens contractual relations and the bargaining power of producers. its implementation has had a number of practical positive impacts, but only in those states that have given sufficient support to its implementation. many member states still have reservations. it is important that the commission adopts more favourable and realistic measures regarding the intervention price (not updated since 2008!), which must take more account of production costs. the commission will also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken on the milk market. the centre shall process market data and shall be able to send early warnings to the commission services, enabling it to act more rapidly in the early stages of a crisis in the sector. i am convinced that the importance of accurate and timely information will increase greatly in the post-quota period.
in writing. i supported today the report on the eu milk and milk products outlook review of the implementation of the milk and milk products package, as it can help to improve the difficult situation of milk producers who may be affected by large fluctuations in milk prices or high energy costs, for example. it is also important to address this issue at european level and thus contribute effectively to the interests of czech farmers. the adoption of the report was recommended by the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ following the russian ban on eu milk and the end of the milk quota, the european milk market needs to adapt. for this reason i supported the european parliament resolution on the review of the implementation of the dairy package. the eu farmers entered the international market which brings the opportunity to become more competitive. i voted to ensure the resolution is in line with the agenda on better regulation: i opposed provisions on coming back to imposing quotas or fixed prices. on the contrary, i welcomed the implementation of incentives to create producer organisations: i think they are the appropriate tool to address imbalances in the supply chain. i also encourage the use of eu quality labels which can bring a real added value to european products in a highly competitive international market.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in the eu milk and milk products sector is complex and of course there is a need to find solutions, but the right tools must be used to achieve the objectives set. i reject any intervention in this sector, especially in the form of milk quotas, which were used at a different time than now. milk quotas would currently only act as a brake on the competitiveness of the dairy sector and tie the hands of farmers who could otherwise increase production at a profit.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the transfer of knowledge, research, innovation and measures to improve the quality and labelling of products is essential in this area. this alone will increase the competitiveness of european products on the international market. it is important to seize the opportunities for growth and development of this sector with european fund funding, thus facilitating success in this sector.
in writing. on 7 july 2015, i voted against the report by my colleague zahradil on the external impacts of eu trade and investment policy outside the eu. in the recent set of directives (no 2014/23, 2014/24, 2014/25) the commission has expressed its orientation towards promoting the private and public sectors in a deregulated environment without any obstacles to competitiveness. in my view, this orientation is actually a veiled attack on public services and public procurement in developing countries. this is of course in direct contradiction to the development and protection of social and environmental rights. our group has tabled an alternative motion rejecting public-private partnerships as a tool used for market access, deregulation and liberalization of the public sector, public procurement in developing countries and diversion of development funds to private companies. i believe that the private sector can only contribute to job creation and the well-being of local people if there is a clearly defined regulatory framework based on respect for and development of social rights, environmental protection and cultural diversity, as well as strong and efficient public services. since i am deeply concerned about the misuse of public funds from cooperation programmes by the private sector and our alternative proposal did not pass, i had to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i see no reason why the eu should train other countries in public-private partnerships. ppp projects are controversial and the eu should not promote them at the expense of market solutions. we see no reason for the eu to create data centres for large companies with all the taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ the existing fruit and vegetable regime is too complex and unfortunately does not provide legal certainty. i therefore believe that the first step in making producer organisations more attractive should be to simplify the regime and remove legal uncertainty, which is why i voted in favour of the draft report. the fruit and vegetables sector, with its size, accounts for 0,98% of the total arable land area of the czech republic and has been experiencing a sustained slight decline, which needs to be changed. the association of the czech producer sector, which can be traced back to 1998, when the first sales cooperative with a territorial scope covering the whole of the czech republic was established, showed the possibility of improving its market position. at the time of the czech republic's accession to the eu, the sector's organisation was around 20%, but by 2007 it had already reached 28,5%. at present, the organization rate is almost 40%. the area of fruit and vegetable market gardens included in producer organisations and producer groups in the czech republic now totals 9 638 ha (an increase of 27.2% compared to 2007) and represents almost 39% of the total area of production fruit and vegetable market gardens in the agricultural sector in the czech republic, which totals 25,2 thousand ha. this is an important issue and i hope that this draft report is a step forward.
in writing. the reform of the fruit and vegetables regime implemented in 2007 confirmed and extended the policy of strengthening the role of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations. this is particularly important in the fruit and vegetables sector, where the union has essentially left the market free. eu financial support targeted at producer organisations is targeted at 4,1% of the value of marketed production. the share of the total value of marketed fruit and vegetables produced by producer organisations increased to 43% in 2010, but there are still large differences in the degree of organisation of producers between member states and in a number of countries fruit and vegetable producers still have a very weak position in the distribution chain. nevertheless, like the rapporteur, i believe that the increase in the degree of producer organisation so far is evidence of the success of the eu's policy of encouraging the creation and development of producer organisations. further improvements in this area should remain one of the eu priorities for the fruit and vegetables regime. for this reason, i support strengthening incentives for the creation of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations and for their merger. it is important to find a way to make membership in these organisations more attractive; the first step to this should be to simplify the regime and improve the management of producer organisations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform, as it points to possible further steps to strengthen the position of fruit and vegetables producers through the creation of producer organisations and producer groups. the report concludes that the current regime is too complex and does not provide a sufficient degree of legal certainty. this is also the case in the czech republic, where the total area for fruit and vegetables under producers affiliated to producer organisations and producer groups accounts for 39% of the total area used for fruit and vegetables. the czech ministry of agriculture also expressed its support for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform. the report by the european commission that evaluates the development of the fruit and vegetable regime offers a comprehensive perspective while pointing out suggestions for improvement. one of the positive trends facilitated by the new rules has been the increased concentration of producer organisations, which have played centre stage in the fruit and vegetable policy since the 1990s. the majority of the producers are small and medium-sized businesses and collective action and coordination enhances their competitiveness, as well as environmental sustainability. i welcome the report’s call to improve the management of producer organizations, which need qualified managers to succeed in this competitive sector.
in writing. ‒ i consider this report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform to be very positive, which is why i also supported it. i very much welcome the fact that our producers are taking full advantage of financial support, especially to invest in advertising campaigns or in training. i very much like that this reform has endorsed and extended the policy of strengthening the role of associations of producer organisations.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today a proposal to revise two directives in the field of commercial law. one of the objectives of the proposed legislation should be, in particular, to motivate shareholders to remain involved in the companies in which they have invested in the long term. the financial crisis, as the commissioner pointed out, has shown that shareholders have in many cases encouraged managers to take excessive short-term risks with a focus on short-term returns. furthermore, i believe that the rapporteur's efforts to increase transparency in companies should be supported by publishing the minutes of general meetings on the websites of companies. for the first time, the adjustment of remuneration policy at european level is mentioned. what i consider to be key for our faction is the establishment of the principle of country by country reporting. we all agree that tax evasion is a big problem that needs to be addressed. i therefore welcome the progressive content of this report.
madam president, allow me also to thank my colleague for the report he has prepared, because i think it is quite essential. the aim of this proposal is to make structural changes to the ets so that the surplus of billions of allowances accumulating in the system since 2009 can finally be settled. unfortunately, this is not the first attempt to revive the already failed system of trading in allowances, and i must say that i am more and more sceptical about this instrument after previous experiences. the allowance market can only serve to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the short term as a temporary complement to legally binding commitments in the area of climate protection. in addition, we still lack legislation to address the problems of the segment of the economy most exposed to the dangers of carbon leakage. the principle of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is based on political agreement, and we need political agreement at the highest level. but without an agreement between china, india, the us and south america on legally binding and, above all, enforceable commitments, this cannot happen. our efforts cannot be focused only on the long-term maintenance and management of the emission allowance market, but must above all focus on maximising globally binding agreements between all the major players at the forthcoming paris conference.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on how to proceed with the emissions trading system is very long and complicated in this parliament. i'm one of the skeptics that further administrative adjustment will resolve and stabilize the permit system in the long run. the problem lies in the system of the artificial market itself. i am convinced that, despite the pre-defined rules for interfering with the allowance market, the system is not sustainable in the long term. moreover, i have reservations about the administrative intervention itself, which may be very dangerous economically for many businesses in the future. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission needs to have a fundamental discussion on the reallocation of free allowances, but i also recommend that the very essence of the ets be addressed. the debate and final vote in the committee on industry, research and energy on this report shows the need for far-reaching changes to the whole system of emission control solutions.
mr president, first of all, let me thank the commissioner, because she really does make a big part of the good atmosphere in which the european parliament works very well. thank you for coming in and discussing this with us. i would also like to thank my colleague mr fernandes, because he is really the first rapporteur to come to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, of which i am the shadow rapporteur, to discuss the budget with us. i would like to say a few important things about the budget or what has been proposed. ensuring the safety of our citizens is one of the most important tasks of the european union and the member states. i therefore believe that the budget of the european union must not be under-sized in the long term as it is at present. although the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is currently fighting for at least increased spending on key agencies such as frontex, easo, europol, eurojust in the 2016 budget. it is clear that there is a lack of finance here and there will be a lack of it in the future. it is not possible that only a percentage of the budget should be spent on security. we should therefore be systematically focusing on how to ensure the security of the european union. the reality is that without adequate resources, this is not possible. that is why i think it is important that we really strive for this in this negotiating mandate.
madam president, i consider the document on the creation of green jobs to be of good quality and balanced, and i believe that this is due in particular to the rapporteur, mrs jean lambert. i believe that the success of this initiative will depend on green jobs being full-fledged, not just in terms of pay, but also in other ways. this is not automatically guaranteed, as such jobs are largely created in low-wage sectors and at the same time in highly feminized sectors. it would be very unfortunate if our economy were to be led on the path of greening by poorly paid women dependent on sub-par paid employment contracts, while men continue in much better paid but unfortunately often very environmentally problematic activities. in the light of this morning's discussion on the eu-us trade agreement, i would like to express my firm belief that green jobs and the products of their work will not end up on the list of non-tariff barriers to trade as barriers to the development of big business.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her strong commitment to employment issues. i think that the european union should send strong signals and positively motivate the member states to take action, to create favourable conditions for business, to use european funds for an active employment policy and also to improve the quality of education. the european parliament resolution sets out a number of initiatives that can help create new jobs and encourage greater entrepreneurship. the conditions for employment and employment are a good education and the completion of secondary education. i think this is the main message that should also be sent from the european parliament to the member states at the level of the european union.
i would like to distinguish, madam president, between the cases where green policies create jobs, on the basis of good proposals such as the reconstruction of old buildings, public buildings, brownfields, etc., and i think this is an example of this report, which i certainly appreciate, and those where green policies create jobs only by increasing bureaucracy, administration and difficult to understand procedures, which tend to lead to negative results. that is why i want to also highlight in this report the sustainability that is emphasised and based on the principle of the europe 2020 objectives that they adhere to. for me, this report is a good example of the compatibility of green solutions that can also contribute to economic development without substantial costs.
in writing.– it is important to set guidelines for the employment policies of the member states and for the european parliament to send a clear message that member states’ labour market reforms are fundamental to contribute to a competitive and growing europe. technological changes, the digitalisation of the economy and globalisation are leading to new labour market patterns and needs as regards future skills. labour market reforms need to take into consideration such changes and anticipate the needs of the future to ensure the maximum employability of people, especially young people. such reforms should be complemented with educational reforms – it is important to introduce entrepreneurial education in schools and to teach a variety of skills, especially soft skills, as they become more important for a large number of occupations. i support this report and would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work. i also welcome the fact that the commission has proposed guidelines on such an important issue and i urge the council to deal with this proposal as a matter of urgency.
i was particularly interested, madam president, in the commissioner's speech, where he spoke of coherent commitments, leverage and the political environment, but also of the universality of the development aid procedure, with the 0.7% of this aid to gdp not yet being the responsibility of all countries. at the same time, however, i think we cannot overlook one issue, and that is the issue of human rights violations, because we are often dealing with countries that violate human rights in debates here, which concern urgent debates on human rights violations. they violate our objectives, our values that we share as the european union. i believe that we should also make our development aid conditional on respect for the principles on which there is universal agreement, that is to say, the universal agreement, the un universal declaration of human rights, at least as a standard.
mr tsipras, i congratulate you on allowing the people of greece to make a democratic choice and they have said they do not want a european union dictate that is clearly harmful to them. if i were a greek, i'd vote the same as you. but now it's the turn of other politicians in other countries to let their voters decide democratically. mr. schulz, mr. weber, mr. verhofstadt, ask the people in germany, in finland, in slovakia if they want to send more taxpayer money to greece. i think you'll have to swallow the bitter pill that the euro as such is ending. mr tsipras, i wish you a smooth transition to the drachma and then you will see that you will regain competitiveness, that the economy will grow again and that people will start to find work again.
mr president, i would probably be the last person to defend the policy towards cuba of the last decades, and i would be the last person to say that it has been successful. but i would be the first person to say that racing with the americans – who will go more in the direction of being forthcoming, and who will be more rapid, more intensive and more forthcoming at a time when there are very few changes in cuba – is not an equally sizable mistake. i am looking at a paper which has been signed by thousands of cubans, called the agreement for democracy in cuba. if you read from point 1 to point 9, and further to point 10, not one of these points has been implemented. this is what the cubans think is absolutely necessary to be done. i am in favour of a rapprochement, and i am sure that there is a certain benefit that we – and the cubans too – can get from it, but there has to be conditionality. this means that if the cuban regime will do a, we will adjust and we will do 1. if the cuban regime does b, then we will react. it cannot go in the direction of the cubans expecting concessions while basically refusing to discuss human rights. so firstly, there certainly needs to be conditionality. secondly, we need to see the unconditional release of political prisoners; democratic reforms and, indeed, changes to the legal order. do not expect any significant changes with cuba if the legal order is not changed. we still have political prisoners. this has to change, and then i am sure that we will be on the right path. so i am sure that the commission and the high representative will take care of the conditionality. we will want to see results.
mr president, i would first like to say that of course what cuba has been through in the last decades is a heavy burden that it would be very appropriate to relieve. however, the dialogue that the european union wants to establish and which has open diplomatic relations with cuba, i think that it cannot be opened without any conditions. i think the limits should be clear and should be based on defending at least the basic principles of human rights. i want to join in the defence of human rights and a certain doctrine formulated in the czech republic by our former president václav havel, whereby human rights are considered a truly fundamental value, which cannot be exchanged for the unrealizable or perhaps even worthless commitments of cuba. we should support these negotiations in the interest of the cuban people, that's for sure. but i think that even these negotiations must have limits that the european union wants to share and that it cannot go beyond.
mr president, i also thank the commission representatives for the debate we are having here today, because i am very pleased that most of you have quite rightly stated that the blockade has never made things easier. silence, or meaningless agreements like the one we signed in 1996, have not helped anyone either. this is simply survival, and we should all realize that if we want to set our relations as partnerships, then all these things that we have done in our foreign policy before have been wrong. let's face it and start implementing those steps properly. you talk a lot about human rights. the right to a decent life, to work, to have a home, to have free education, free schooling, these are human rights that are quite normal in cuba. let's ask ourselves if they're completely normal across the european union. before we start training anyone, please let us consider the conditions in which the people of cuba have lived and are living and the conditions in which, unfortunately, the citizens of the european union have lived and are living, to whom we are unable to guarantee these rights. i am very grateful to the commissioner for her actions and, please, the last sentence: the european union is capable of an independent foreign policy, so let us pursue it and not be afraid of it.
in writing. cubans have long been isolated and in the last few decades have been more on the fringes of world affairs. cuban society has suffered from this isolation, but the eu now has the opportunity to take proactive steps to improve relations and to show that we have not forgotten the cubans who suffered for many years under an authoritarian regime, but that we are ready to lend a helping hand to transform this regime. the isolation of cuba is, as high representative mogherini rightly pointed out, a relic of the cold war that has no place in the 21st century. many eu member states, such as the czech republic, have a similar historical experience to cuba and these countries can make a valuable contribution to the successful democratization of cuban society. the cuban people have shown us their hope for an improvement in living conditions and it is therefore necessary for the european union to successfully complete the negotiations that have begun and to actively engage in the social, economic and political transformation in cuba and to support the issue of improving the protection of human rights.
mr president, i would first like to commend the neighbouring countries of yemen for having taken in refugees who have managed to cross the straits of aden. i think that their approach should be appreciated and that it contrasts with some of the views expressed on the refugee issue in this parliament or by some member states of the european union, including my own. secondly, i would like to say that the humanitarian crisis that has arisen in yemen should be resolved, of course, best diplomatically, but first and foremost by the initial demand for a humanitarian ceasefire, that is, for the cessation of fighting by both the rebels of al-qaeda and other groups and the coalition led by saudi arabia. i think the most important thing is to make a diplomatic effort to establish a new yemeni government, which will be based on the penetration of all social groups within yemen.
madam president, i would like to welcome the commission's efforts in the field of human rights. there is no doubt that the european union is active, that it is promoting, i would even say, the universality of human rights at the international level, which is not quite common and obvious. i would like to thank the commission for this. however, i would also like to point out a certain contradiction. we are constantly talking about fundamental human rights violations in specific cases in a number of so-called emergencies. then we give aid to countries like that or the same countries that we criticize here. i think that in our approach to aid, we should also include a certain conditionality with good practice in the field of human rights, with improving our own situation in the country we want to support. i think that this conditionality would be appropriate for the future course of the european union.
mr president, last week the kurdish national congress held a conference in brussels on kobani, a city that was 70 percent destroyed in the fighting between its kurdish residents and isis extremists. the conference called for the mobilization of the international community to rebuild kobani. kobani is in need of humanitarian aid. deputy mayor of kobani enver muslim warned that winter is harsh in kobani and time is short. the courage of the kurds fighting islamist terror is admirable, whether they are syrian kurds or iraqi kurds. i bow to the courage of the kurds. by taking back kobani and driving out isis, they gave the world a call to action: we need help, and not just humanitarian. a number of countries have listened to the kurds. for example, my country, the czech republic, donated 500 tons of ammunition to the iraqi kurds last fall. the allies helped the syrian kurds open the offensive by bombing isis positions. the participants of the brussels kurdish national congress, of course, welcomed such assistance, but i also heard urgent calls for joint military action against isis. that's why i'm appealing to our strong nato ally, turkey. turkey is the hegemon in the region today, and i would expect that it would be able to elevate its relationship with the kurds above any nationalistic stance and reject the voices calling for the turkish military to intervene against the syrian kurds.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, i would like to limit myself to two remarks. the first is that the war in general and all these tragedies would not have happened if the americans had not forced alija izetbegovic to withdraw his signature under the peace agreement negotiated by european diplomacy in 1992. the second point is that, although the texts presented to us mention radko mladic and radovan karadzic, there is no mention of the man who actually set in motion the whole series of provocations that led to the tragedy, namely naser orich. a businessman from tuzla who was released in the hague in 2006 because the witnesses were either murdered or disappeared or did not have the courage to speak out. so he was released for lack of evidence. that's all i have to say. i think that the discussion of this matter does not end with what we are discussing in the european parliament.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, i would like to join in thanking the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for the hard and high-quality work they have put into this report. since the adoption of the information society directive in 2001, there has been a steady acceleration in technological developments, digitalisation and the development of social networks. we can say that technology is ahead of the law. but i have personally found it very difficult, if not impossible, to find common ground on how to respond. this is due to the long-standing cultural and legal traditions in copyright law in the member states. today we are evaluating the implementation of the information society directive. the rapporteur originally came up with an ambitious proposal calling for greater harmonisation. however, our group is concerned that such proposals would favour solutions based on the invisible hand of the market and bring additional benefits to large companies such as google. after several months of intensive work, i have come to the conclusion as the shadow rapporteur of our group that we are not yet ready to create a truly unified european copyright law to replace national copyright laws in the member states. perhaps the best illustration of this is the passionate debate on the so-called freedom of panorama, which is regulated differently in different member states. across the political spectrum, we have finally managed, after difficult negotiations, to formulate a compromise proposal that represents a balanced adjustment between the protection of authors and their remuneration and the protection of users and citizens' rights.
madam president, our starting position was not an easy one. the original draft of this report on the implementation of the copyright directive in the information society contained little information on such implementation, but mainly information on the future of the field. information about which country has implemented the directive, what problems it has had, what lawsuits have been filed, that's the minimum information. the result was public confusion. the public doesn't know the difference between a legislative and non-legislative report, so they were convinced that we would be harmonizing something here today, making changes. i consider this confusion of genres and the political campaigns that follow it to be harmful. i certainly don't see this report as an example to follow when it comes to implementing anything. however, it is positive that the message has been brought to an acceptable conclusion. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs for this. the proposal provides a good basis for future discussion of the necessary copyright reform. the european parliament must demonstrate that it is aware of the challenges of the 21st century in the area of copyright, without compromising creativity and the quality of content.
mr president, i would like to say that i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the trade agreement between the european union and the united states of america. i consider it very important, as do 62% of europeans who voted for it in the opinion polls. a number of myths have developed around this agreement. i believe that the commission is negotiating within the mandate given to it by the member states and that the european union will certainly not have to sacrifice its standards in the areas of data protection, health, food safety and the environment. as vice-president of the committee on culture and education, it is essential to me that this agreement does not affect the european union's ability to provide grants and financial support to the cultural sector.
mr president, i have of course supported the ttip agreement and i would like to explain a few points. first, i believe that free trade is, of course, conducive to economic growth and job creation. it is clear that this value, which is linked to our most fundamental partner, that is to say the usa, with whom we certainly share a number of other values, must also be bought somewhere on the other side. that is why i was not very happy when, for example, a protected agricultural designation of origin was not protected in the same way as, for example, in the territory of the european union. but i still think that free trade should have a chance to develop the economy despite these restrictions in some other commodities or areas. and so i voted in favour of this proposal for a mandate for the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ttip interim report which will help commissioner malmström deliver tangible results. in the report the european parliament backs the commissioner’s negotiating position on maintaining the current standards we have in the eu especially in the area of food safety and environment. i believe that a strong ttip would bring benefits for entrepreneurs, smes and consumers while at the same time creating a fruitful environment for investment and innovation in the eu.
in writing. i voted against this report along with more than five dozen european socialists and democrats. among other things, because many of the wording in it allows the negotiators to disregard the original positions of our group last year. this concerns, for example, the so-called arbitration amendment, which does not preclude the operation of the existing practice of arbitration under a different heading. i believe that the lack of clarity in the formulation of the text at this stage of the negotiations may lead to a failure to respect the balanced position of the socialist and democratic group at the beginning of this term of office.
in writing. - i have been following the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) closely for several months, and i was therefore not at all indifferent to the outcome of the vote on wednesday. based on the information available or leaked, my concerns about the future of europe and its citizens grew and the approved proposal did not give me much hope. i had hoped for a much greater emphasis on protecting workers' rights, the environment and health. instead, i was greeted with empty phrases and promises that the european union would not lower its standards. most seem to believe that europe has such great negotiators that the us will give us a pass on everything and nothing will change for the eu, except that we will have a more fluid transatlantic trade that we will all benefit from. i no longer trust the judgment of the european representatives and i fear that they have lost their vision of a happy future, which has been implanted in them by the multinational corporations. i disagree with ttip not only as a trade agreement, but also as a geopolitical agreement, as it is increasingly being called. i reject the notion that europe and the united states must work hand in hand to create an economic giant that will at least try to dominate the world again and prevent the rise of china and other global players. ttip is a treaty of fear, and that's why i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the ttip transatlantic trade and investment partnership. its purported aim is to remove barriers to trade so that it is easier to buy and sell goods and services between the eu and the us. but what are these obstacles? differences in the laws, technical regulations, standards and approval procedures. the agreement aims, among other things, to get as close as possible to the elimination of all tariffs on transatlantic trade in industrial and agricultural products, the european commission says. so we're going to accept american genetically modified corn? the agreement also includes investment protection. however, it also involves arbitration of disputes between the investor and the state, excluding the state courts. among other things, the state is to be responsible for labour disputes under national law i.e. for trade union strikes and demonstrations. they must compensate the investor for the damage caused by these disputes. regardless of their legitimacy. another problem with ttip is the need for consensus on intellectual property rights, where the european and american models differ greatly and a separate chapter is the regulation of personal data protection. the proceedings are held behind closed doors. no one has invited, for example, representatives of european trade unions, nor are the voices of citizens who are agitating against the agreement being heard. i'm saying this deal is only good for one side, and it's not good for europe. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation on ttip not only because i support the negotiation of the agreement, but also because the ep expressed some views in it that should lead to a better ttip agreement. the old investor-state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism should be replaced by a new system with publicly appointed and independent judges, public hearings and an appeal mechanism. i welcome that. in my experience, i consider that a welcome development. the new isds should ensure greater predictability, independence and impartiality of decision-making. a safeguard clause should also be included in the ttip agreement to apply in the event of an increase in imports of a product which would pose a risk of serious damage to domestic food production. the european parliament has voted today to overcome ideological differences and take a major step towards a better and more inclusive ttip. i also thank the colleagues who supported the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted by parliament is intended to rectify in part the too benevolent mandate given to the european commission by the member states. it is essential to stress, however, that this is a non-legislative resolution, a recommendation to the european commission, not a vote on ttip itself. the resolution aims to highlight areas where no compromise can be made and where european standards must be accepted. it would be irresponsible to favour populism when it is still possible to intervene in the negotiations. the european parliament is the only democratically elected body of the eu, and therefore has the responsibility to outline what agreement it will or will not accept. for example, not adopting the resolution would imply tacit support for the original isds and for another problematic part of the agreement. the resolution is the result of months of cooperation involving 14 committees. it is not a perfect text, but it does give a clear indication of what the commission should focus on in the further negotiations. for example, parliament has set hard limits on data protection and financial services and rejected any form of private arbitration under isds. in my view, the report could have contained more recommendations on the environment, health and food, but as i have already said, this is a compromise, which is simply the best that this parliament could have agreed on by a majority. but this is by no means a green light for ttip as such.
‒ it is certainly true that the eu needs a better trade agreement with the us. it is also true, however, that such a contract must reflect both commercial interests and the interests of citizens, particularly in the area of health and consumer protection. the draft report by s&d mep bernard lange was withdrawn from the june plenary session, as a number of right-wing meps had clearly stated in advance that they would reject the report if they accepted the social democrats' demand for the exclusion of the system of investor-state dispute settlement in the form of private arbitration (isds), as there were legitimate concerns about the disadvantageous position of states vis-à-vis private companies. the eu president, martin schulz, therefore proposed a compromise proposal, which won the support of the majority of social democrats, in the new negotiations, and which calls for the replacement of the isds mechanism, i.e. the mechanism of private arbitrations, by a new, public, democratic and more transparent mechanism. i am pleased that the european parliament, thanks to my vote, supported both the compromise proposal on the dispute settlement mechanism and the entire document. i consider this to be a clearly positive step in the process of further negotiation of a treaty that is unquestionably very necessary for the eu's competitiveness on a global scale. the european parliament will of course vote on the final text of the treaty and all the proposed measures will certainly be subject to detailed scrutiny.
in writing. i supported the resolution on ttip by the rapporteur, mr lange, because it gives a great deal of clarity to the political mandate and demands of the socialist members of the european parliament towards the negotiators of the agreement. today's vote does not automatically mean acceptance of the final text of the agreement, which is still being negotiated. the european parliament has made clear today the specific points without which it will not support the final agreement. these include, for example, the exclusion of public services, ensuring the protection of workers, the environment or respecting regulations on product safety and consumer rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) in particular because ttip will ensure a level playing field for member states' investors and in particular an attractive eu for foreign investment, which is a major contributor to our economic growth and employment. ttip aims to facilitate trade and investment between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on negotiations between the eu and the us on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. as a shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee for industry, research and energy i closely followed the report and negotiations within the ep and i also gave my recommendations to the leading committee. the important aim of this vote was to deliver a strong mandate for the european commission to conduct negotiations with the us side. after many weeks of delays due to divisions within the socialist group the ep adopted the text calling for ambitious negotiations to continue. i strongly support four main priorities outlined by the alde group: ttip must remove bureaucratic hurdles for european businesses and create market access; advantage europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises; ensure high environmental, labour and food safety standards at the global level; and introduce a modernised investment protection mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that this report has been adopted and i supported it despite all my reservations. i consider it a unique opportunity for us members to comment on these negotiations between the european commission and the usa and thus to contribute to the content of the agreements concluded.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia establishes the framework for the relations and a free trade area between the two entities. following croatia’s accession to the eu, it was necessary to formally adjust the agreement, therefore i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia establishes the framework for the relations and a free trade area between the two entities. following croatia’s accession to the eu, it was necessary to formally adjust the agreement, therefore i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india. the first agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and india was signed in 2001; this year the eu decided to renew the agreement until 2020. it is very important to spread the knowledge and scientific cooperation within europe as well as in other countries. scientific cooperation with india is a very important step in this respect and serves as an example of long-lasting cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and faroe islands. the faroe islands were granted the status of ‘associated country’ in 2010, in 2014 the negotiations by the european commission led to a new agreement to maintain the status of ‘associated country’ for participation in horizon 2020. this agreement, as well as the other two agreements on the cooperation between the eu and switzerland and eu and india, aims to tackle global challenges and support eu’s external policies. i can fully support this approach: it is necessary to focus more on the external dimension and to continue with cooperation especially in field of science.
mr president, i too would like to explain my vote in favour of this motion. not only because of the transparency of the flow, as my colleague mentioned in the preamble, but also because amendment no 1 extends the original proposal to include large companies, large enterprises. and that's what i consider essential. those companies whose shares have been admitted to trading on a regulated market. at the same time, i would like to appreciate that this proposal involves greater shareholder involvement in the management of companies, because this is undoubtedly a value that shareholders have, i think, been clearly lacking. in the czech republic, this was seen in perhaps the biggest fraud in the control of water companies, where shareholders were really laid off, and that's why i'm glad the proposal is going in the right direction.
in writing. on 8 july 2015, we voted on the report by sergio cofferati on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement. the revision mainly concerns the management and administration of companies. in particular, it is intended to increase shareholders' incentives to become more voluntarily involved in the companies in which they have invested by buying shares. the debate on the proposal in the rapporteurs' negotiations was very complex from the outset. the original draft report was of a very high quality and contained a number of provisions which were important to our group, but which the rapporteur gradually reduced in importance during the discussions in order to please the right-wing groups in particular. however, with the help of the votes of other smaller groups, we were finally able to vote on the key points in the committee, such as the country by country reporting and the adjustment of the remuneration of company bodies. that is why i have finally decided to support this report in the plenary.
in writing. the cofferati report concerns a proposal to revise two directives in the field of commercial law, which govern the management and administration of companies and are intended in particular to encourage shareholders to be involved in the long-term affairs of the companies in which they have invested. the financial crisis has shown that shareholders have in many cases encouraged managers to take excessive short-term risks with a focus on short-term returns. the proposed measures are expected to affect approximately 10 000 listed companies in europe. despite the complexity of the negotiations and the many concessions made in the search for a compromise, the report managed to incorporate a number of important positive elements, the most important being the so-called country by country reporting, which would help to combat tax evasion, as well as the first attempt to regulate remuneration at european level. that is why i decided to support the report in the final vote.
in writing. - i supported the report because it contains useful changes leading to an improvement in the position of shareholders and greater transparency of public limited companies. 0 other on the contrary, i am disappointed that the report includes public disclosure of company profits and the publication of tax rulings, in addition to the commission's original proposal. i think that is bad to that extent and i hope that the amendment will not enter into force in that form. the adjustment of tax rulings to increase transparency and the introduction of cbcr by firms needs to be done in such a way that the objectives of these measures are achieved at reasonable cost and without jeopardising the competitive position of european firms. it is much more appropriate to deal with this systematically in the tax reports which are now being prepared by the econ committee and the taxe subcommittee, where i would like to support a well-reasoned proposal.
in writing. the report by rapporteur sergio gaetano cofferati represents a major shift in the field of entrepreneurship and transparency. i voted for it mainly because it offers a solution to combat tax evasion and avoidance. it requires large corporations and public interest groups to submit annual financial reports in the country where they are active. i welcome the fact that large companies will have to disclose to the public information about the number of employees, the size of turnover, profits, subsidies, but especially the tax on profits or losses. i am convinced that this approach will help to prevent disasters like luxleaks and contribute to a fairer distribution of wealth in europe. in the context of the current financial and economic instability in the european union, it is abundantly clear that we cannot tolerate the practice of circumventing tax and other laws. i voted in favour of a provision which encourages greater and long-term shareholder involvement in the management of listed companies. i believe that the long-term involvement of these entities will help to stabilise the situation on the financial market. today, investors are often driven by the idea of getting rich quick, but that does not have such long-term economic benefits. i also voted for more control over the remuneration of company board members. it is time for sustainability policy to finally play a crucial role in the distribution of the generous remuneration of managers.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted by a very strong majority the report by the social democratic rapporteur cofferati, which aims in particular to promote the role of shareholders in large companies. parliament sent a clear message that companies and companies listed on stock exchanges should publish all information on profits made, income taxes and public subsidies received in each country. in many eu countries, this is still largely untreated and non-transparent. the proposed amendment to the shareholder rights directive also includes proposals to ensure that listed companies will be able to identify their shareholders, asset managers and institutional investors such as pension funds or insurance companies. we have included in the draft directive the requirement that shareholders be able to vote every three years on the remuneration policy of the company's management, which i believe can have an impact on the more responsible and efficient behaviour of their managers and their orientation towards the long-term prosperity of the company. however, member states will be free to decide whether this vote is decisive or merely advisory. the proposal also includes measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance, in particular for multinational enterprises, but also for public-interest entities such as insurance companies. they will have to report openly on the losses, profits and taxes reported in each country where they operate.
in writing. ‒ in line with my agenda on better regulation, i supported the report on long-term shareholder engagement. the report aims at encouraging long-term shareholder engagement as a way to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, but also to create an attractive environment for shareholders. i am in favour of full transparency and disclosure of information that can be beneficial for shareholders; however, rules we establish should not be too detailed and put a disproportionate burden on businesses. i opposed the provisions on submitting the remuneration policy to a vote and imposing a set ratio between directors’ pay and employees’ salaries. such requirements would impose a high administrative burden on the businesses while they are of a minimum benefit for the markets and the shareholders; today shareholders already have the right to ask for this information during the general meeting.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the focus should be on long-term objectives, which should encourage greater shareholder involvement in the future. it is important to have a dialogue with them on business matters. another no less important aspect is transparency, which i believe should apply to the activities of larger companies, particularly with regard to profits made, taxes on profits and subsidies received. this form is necessary to ensure the confidence of shareholders and other companies in the eu trading sphere.
in writing. i supported the compromise resulting from the trilogue between the ep, the commission and the council. it includes the creation of a market stability reserve as of 1 january 2019 and an exemption for the so-called solidarity allowances allocated annually to new member states, which will be withdrawn from the market stability reserve until 2025. i know that compromise was born with difficulty, there has been a blocking minority in the council for a long time, and that is why i am glad that a solution has finally been adopted which will allow the situation on the emissions market to be unblocked and it will be able to fulfil its purpose once again, namely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in an economically efficient way. at the same time, i'm glad that the future of the ems is coming to the table. a delayed response to a weakening of the system is not good for the economy. it penalizes responsible and long-term thinking and rewards speculation or irresponsible resource management.
‒ there is no doubt that the current system for regulating greenhouse gas emissions has not met the expectations that were placed in it and that it needs to be significantly reformed. i am pleased that the european parliament has supported the introduction of a mechanism called the market stability reserve, which should stimulate investors to make sustainable investment decisions in the long term. the mechanism will be based on automatic transfer of allowances to reserves during periods of oversupply on the market and their release during periods of shortage. i consider a functioning and above all stable system of allowance trading based on high flexibility to be an essential part of the eu's climate policy and of sustainable economic growth in general. the legislative proposal adopted today is also favourable to the czech republic, as the final text includes compensation for the czech republic's loss of auction revenues. these outages are related to the earlier than expected deployment of the market stability reserve.
in writing. ‒ there are currently around 2 billion allowances remaining on the market. as we know, the effects of the economic crisis are behind this, but there are other factors as well. this fact has a negative impact not only on the auction price of the allowances themselves, but also on the incentives of operators to invest in more environmentally friendly measures. it is for this reason that i have decided to support the draft decision to create a market stability reserve. the reserve promises to significantly improve predictability and market stability and to provide incentives for investment in green innovation. as a consequence, emissions should also be gradually reduced. lastly, it will represent a welcome and, above all, desirable alignment between industrial and environmental policy today. in conclusion, i would like to say that i also appreciate the final form of this report in the context of the final negotiation on the content, which included compensatory clauses of importance to the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on establishment of the market stability reserve for the emissions trading system. the emissions trading system was supposed to be an important step towards lowering the co2 emissions and was expected to serve as a best example of a system to fight against air pollution. but instead it became poorly functioning and led to a large surplus of allowances. establishment of the market stability reserve should help to tackle the over-supply of allowances and to find a better balance within the ets. in trialogue the european parliament and council agreed on the start date for the msr (2019, two years earlier than proposed by the commission) and on placing the ‘backloaded’ allowances directly into the msr. i agree with this review and i hope this step will help to bring about a well-functioning system incentivising innovation and the competitiveness of our industry.
in writing. ‒ i am personally sceptical that further administrative adjustment will resolve and stabilise the allowance system in the long term. the problem lies in the system of the artificially created market itself. i am convinced that, despite the pre-defined rules for intervention in the allowance market, the system is not sustainable in the long term. moreover, i have reservations about the administrative intervention itself, which may be very dangerous economically for many businesses in the future. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission needs to have a fundamental discussion on the reallocation of free allowances, but i also recommend that the very essence of the ets be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i have always been against the introduction of emission allowances, which put european businesses at a disadvantage in global competition, but once they have been introduced, the rules must be respected and the system must not be constantly tampered with. i reject the creation of a market stabilisation reserve to regulate the supply of auctioned allowances, and i also reject the practice of so-called backloading of emission allowances, which i regard as non-systemic market intervention that will only artificially affect the price and will lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of industry. the eu must wake up from the illusions of zero emissions, full decarbonisation and 100% renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the commission proposal and the corresponding european parliament position. until now, the workers’ rights for seafarers varied from one member state to another. i believe that considering the challenges faced by the maritime sector, especially labour shortages, harmonizing seafarers’ rights across the eu is an important step to take. both access to information and consultation rights are fundamental rights and should be guaranteed for off-shore and on-shore workers. ensuring a level playing field between workers in the fisheries and shipping sectors would result also in fairer competition.
in writing. ‒ as a shadow rapporteur i gave my consent to the agreement on scientific cooperation between the eu and switzerland within horizon 2020 and iter activities. switzerland gained the status of ‘associated country’ in 2004. this status enabled its participation in the eu’s sixth research framework programme, seventh rfp and the eighth framework programme horizon 2020. however, switzerland held a referendum to reintroduce immigration quotas in february 2014, which had repercussions on the other agreements, notably on the agreement on the scientific cooperation within the eu framework programmes. a new agreement between the eu and switzerland was reached during the negotiations in 2014, granting switzerland ‘associated country’ status in some parts of horizon 2020 (excellent science, nuclear energy research) until the end of 2016 in exchange for a financial contribution. i agree with a need to join the effort in the field of science and to extend this cooperation also to another countries. therefore i support this agreement.
in writing. on 8 july 2015, we voted on the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states consider their economic policies and employment promotion to be a matter of common interest and therefore coordinate their action within the council. the commission's proposal includes reforming education systems to match skills to labour market demands, modernising social security systems, reforming the pension system, including the correlation between retirement age and life expectancy, and shifting the tax burden from labour to other sources of taxation that are less harmful to employment and growth. in general, the agea report was much better than the commission's original proposal, as it also contains, among other things, references to decent working conditions and adequate wages, references to adequate social protection, including a guaranteed minimum income, and a reference to the importance of addressing the growing shortage of workers in the public sector, such as health care and social services. however, the final text of the report was strongly affected by the proposals of the ppe and alde colleagues and was therefore significantly weakened, especially as regards the social security adjustment. that's why i was forced to stay.
in writing. the european parliament adopted, in the context of the consultation process, amendments to the text of the draft council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. it has thus amended the original proposal of the european commission in an attempt to make it even more effective, in particular by strengthening the social and environmental dimensions of the text. i believe that, in view of the unemployment rate in the eu and the growing number of people living in poverty (today, it is estimated that there are some 20 million people), it is essential to establish reliable poverty indicators and to continue to fight against all forms of poverty and discrimination, with a focus on extreme poverty. the interconnectedness of member states' economies and labour markets is a fact across the eu, and we therefore call for decisive, coordinated, ambitious and effective policy action at both union and national level. in this regard, there is a need to strengthen investment, in particular in the development of smes, micro-enterprises, innovative start-ups and enterprises that promote green employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these guidelines which ask for more specific actions to reduce unemployment and support job creation by smes. on one side, labour demand must be boosted, especially for young people, and on the other side we need to ensure the labour offer matches the need of the european businesses. on the job creation side, i supported all provisions which intend to cut red tape for smes to hire people. on education and training, i am in favour of measures to enhance the entrepreneurship skills of the european workforce and measures enabling it to diversify its skills and so better adapt to a fast-changing labour market. more specifically, to tackle youth unemployment, i supported the overall strategy to consistently implement the youth guarantee at national level. eu funding should be targeted to improve their skills and assist them throughout the starting up of their own businesses, with better access to information and funding. i opposed provisions on setting up a union minimum wage in the eu as it is a regulatory competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this initiative because i believe that we still need to work on developing an employment strategy, especially by promoting the qualification and re-qualification of employees. great attention should be paid to regions where there is excessive unemployment and where people are currently fleeing precisely because of the lack of job opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the 568 redundancies which occurred in broadcom communications in finland. these redundancies are the result of a larger trend affecting the finnish electronics industry and hurt a region which already was affected by nokia redundancies in the past. the finnish assistance to the workers complies with all criteria for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund and consists of three measures: helping workers transfer to a new job, helping them start their own business and providing them with appropriate training.
in writing. on 8 july 2015, i abstained from the vote on the report on the mandate for the trialogue on the draft budget for the financial year 2016. this report is intended to set out the mandate for the european parliament team's negotiations with the council on the 2016 budget. the draft eu budget for 2016 provides for an amount of eur 153,5 billion in commitment appropriations, including eur 4,5 billion from the 2014 surplus. this represents an overall increase of 2,4% in commitment appropriations. in the negotiations on the 2016 mandate, our group has made some partial successes with its amendments, for example on the integration of the requirement to create decent and quality jobs and to increase employment and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship. despite these partial victories, however, the main aspects of the mandate remain the same as in previous years. thus, the emphasis on austerity, the channelling of the eu and its citizens into the service of large multinational corporations, and the apparent support of their financial interests has been maintained. but the current wording of the mandate is arguably the best wording in the last decade, because even the most entrenched european institutions have finally begun to admit the many mistakes they made in previous years, but it is still not enough, which is why i had to abstain.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the ep has approved the mandate for the tripartite budget negotiations for 2016, which includes strong support for increased spending under the security and citizenship chapter, including on asylum and migration. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the financial year in question to cover the expenditure relating to the implementation of the budget. given the urgency of the problem of the increase in migration flows to europe and the difficulty of some states in managing them, it is necessary for europe to seek common solutions supported by adequate financial resources, the use of which will, however, be strictly controlled.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2016 draft budget. in the current context, it is of utmost importance to ensure that our priorities, and among them competitiveness and growth, receive the appropriate funding. the european fund for strategic investment is a new tool to boost the european economy and its innovative potential. it must be sufficiently funded to trigger a leverage effect. however, the level of funding for other key programmes such as horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility must be kept as high as possible: these mechanisms are not intended for the same type of projects, but they are complementary and will bring real added-value to our economy if combined.
in writing. on 8 july 2015, i supported the report of the committee on employment and social affairs on the green jobs initiative, which the commission had already presented in july 2014. this document was part of the employment package and was based on the assumption that up to 20 million jobs could be created in the eu by 2020 through the so-called green economy. this report correctly accepts the definition of 'green jobs' developed by the international labour organisation, which refers to them as decent jobs that reduce emissions, reduce energy and raw material consumption, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems. the proposal put forward by the green group and rapporteur jean lambert was strong, environmentally friendly and in favour of workers, and aimed to ensure that workers and their collectives were not left behind in the transition to a low-carbon or zero-carbon economy. the proposal calls for the targeted development and teaching of green technology skills to workers and students, including workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the suppression of the development of polluting industries. it states that the jobs created in the green economy must be of high quality and sustainable. since the subsequent negotiations managed to preserve the original strengths of the text, i decided to support this report.
in writing. green jobs, according to the international labour organisation, are decent jobs that reduce energy and raw material consumption, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems. however, the european parliament has supported a broader concept of green employment and is considering it in the general context of greening the economy. green jobs seek to respond to the biggest challenges: inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressures on the environment and climate change, as well as social exclusion and social inequality. i fully support the call for a coherent comprehensive policy framework to ensure a predictable environment for both training and investment. these include investing in energy efficiency and energy poverty, which are long-standing topics in my parliamentary work. for example, estimates of the impact of the energy performance of buildings directive on employment pointed to the creation of a possible two million jobs, many of which would not by their nature be transferred abroad. to support green jobs, further reform of the green tax, energy and resource efficiency and an industrial strategy to support investment in innovation in eu industrial policy are needed with the ambitious aim of making the eu the most resource-efficient economy in the world.
in writing. ‒ this initiative aims at supporting the much-needed shift to green growth and ensure europe maximises the job creation opportunities it brings. in the respect of eu competence in the employment sector, the eu should focus on boosting job creation through an appropriate use of existing eu funding. in order to bridge the skills gaps in europe by providing for instance necessary trainings, the eu should be able to foresee the changes in the job market. smes will need special attention in this respect: the combination of the green action plan for smes and an intelligent use of the new efsi programme should provide them with effective incentives and the appropriate framework to move to greener products and processes. during the votes i opposed references to ‘creating quality long-term jobs’ because the report already included provisions on ‘sustainable employment’.
in writing. ‒ while i do not want to challenge efforts to improve environmental and climate protection, i strongly oppose artificial efforts to green the economy, especially in the form of state interventions and subsidies, which do not lead to more economic growth but will mean more bureaucracy, controls, increased costs and ultimately a deterioration of the eu's competitiveness on world markets. artificial efforts to green the planet will also lead to a subsidy-based bubble. in the case of the czech republic, this is the case for example with solar power plants or biofuels, where there is even a conflict of interest where the dominant producer of biofuels is a company owned by a current member of the government that decides on the subsidy scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on tax avoidance and tax evasion in developing countries. i was the shadow rapporteur of the econ opinion on this report. the final text includes the recommendations we defined for the economic side and it takes into account the specificities of developing countries. it is important to keep in mind that those countries do not have the same administrative and technical capacities as european countries to fight tax avoidance. that is why it is crucial that we give them a transitional period for the implementation of the oecd standard on automatic exchange of information. although developing countries do not always have the capacity to send the required information, it is of utmost important that they receive tax information from developed countries so that they can detect and correct abusive tax practices.
in writing. on 8 july 2015, i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and tax evasion, social protection and development in developing countries. tax havens and absolute bank secrecy, combined with zero taxation, always attract capital and income that should be taxed in other countries, creating harmful tax competition, undermining the fairness of tax systems, and affecting the environment in developing countries in particular. nor is the situation helped by tax evasion by companies that seek to avoid taxation by creating complex internal structures and by exploiting loopholes in tax laws. the report calls for an action plan to combat tax avoidance and evasion in developing countries. the report also urges the commission and the member states to assess the impact of european tax policies in developing countries and to eliminate practices that have a negative impact on developing countries. since many of our amendments were reflected in the compromises adopted, i decided to support the document.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is always an important problem we need to tackle, but in this case especially for developing countries regarding their high illicit financial flow levels, high dependency on corporate taxation and low tax-to-gdp ratios. these countries are in most need of tax revenue for infrastructure, welfare, education and many other things, but struggle to achieve it, with a prevalence of the rich and powerful easily dodging tax payment. i am, therefore, rejoiced that this resolution is adopted by a clear vote. the eu must engage actively in supporting developing countries for a fair and efficient tax system with a transparent and responsible administration to eliminate exploitation of the existing loopholes. the fact that most global solutions at present are prioritising benefits on developed countries, or in many cases on the oecd countries, this must be balanced. hence i very much support the ambitious proposals in the report, among which country-by-country reporting, the creation of an inter-governmental body where developing countries participate equally in reforming the existing global tax system, and other things. in the light of the upcoming addis ababa conference, i look to further solutions that put tax justice into practice.
in writing. the report on tax evasion in developing countries is a very important subject, especially in the light of the forthcoming un conference in addis ababa, and deserves full support. it is not just about trying to increase and make tax collection more efficient, but also about the methods of achieving these goals in coordination with development aid. development aid has no single binding obligation in the eu, but after unification it could become a very important tool with a leverage effect on developing country governments, giving them a stronger incentive to enact effective and enforceable tax legislation. the human rights issue must not be neglected either. all development aid must be conditional on respect for universally recognised principles, such as the un universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on tax avoidance and tax evasion in developing countries. it is essential that we support those countries in implementing the oecd standard on automatic exchange of information. it is of utmost important that they receive this tax information from more advanced countries so that they can detect and correct abusive tax practices.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against tax havens and tax evasion in developing countries, because taxes should be paid where profits are made. however, the proposed report is unacceptable given the reference to the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, which is a risky step towards a single eu tax policy, with the consequence of undermining tax competition within the eu and imposing huge taxation costs on businesses, especially smes.
in principle, i am in favour of the most modern and efficient waste management and resource use possible. but it does not appear that the european union or governments understand this issue better than the companies themselves, who themselves have incentives to be resource-efficient and resource-efficient. the eu cannot think that by limiting the use of resources it will contribute to a more efficient use of resources in the future.
in writing. i supported the circular economy report because i consider the circular economy to be an important building block of a sustainable economy and therefore an important and strategic area to be tackled head on rather than with our backs turned. europe can play a leading role in the world thanks to its technological advances, but only if it applies these technologies itself. i do not agree with the rejection of energy efficiency and waste management targets just because they would be difficult to achieve. i am convinced that reducing energy consumption and making more efficient use of resources is in the interests of greater economic stability and raw material price stability in europe. circular economy incentives can also be a catalyst for the development of new technologies and the creation of new jobs. clearly setting long-term objectives and sticking to them is the best way to unlock the potential in these areas and minimise the short-term costs of changing the economy to a more responsible and sustainable way of working.
‒ a circular economy is the ability to increase the productivity of resources by recycling and reusing them. i am glad that the strong text of the resolution was adopted, especially because of the significant contribution of the social democrats, who succeeded in putting a stronger tone into the text. i am convinced that a 30% increase in resource productivity by 2030 compared to 2014 is a realistic prospect and will lead to further growth and job creation in particular. to do this, it is necessary to set clear targets and indicators (e.g. a 2025 waste reduction target for municipal, industrial and commercial waste), revise ecodesign rules (life, repairability, reusability and recycling), renew the waste directive (new binding impact targets could lead to the creation of up to 180 000 new jobs) and adopt measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources, which the social democrats have strongly advocated. i am pleased that the resolution also proposes specific recommendations, for example on the retail sector and its involvement in the distribution of unsold goods to charitable organisations. we need to realize the enormous potential of the term circular economy, and we need to go through a change in conservative thinking that often tells us to think of green and innovative things as expensive. the opposite is true, and i am glad that this view has prevailed in the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the report on moving towards a circular economy, as it is without doubt the only long-term sustainable path to future prosperity in europe. only organic production, waste management, recycling and consumption reduction can ensure a good environment for us and future generations. at the same time, however, these principles need to be implemented in a transparent and gradual manner to ensure that the eu remains competitive and that our legislation is clear and predictable to businesses.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved a report entitled ‘resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy’. as an itre rapporteur for the opinion on the legislative part of the package i was personally very much interested in this file and i submitted several amendments on the report. i am glad that the european parliament approved the report by a comfortable majority and confirmed the importance of this issue. the report contains a number of recommendations on setting non-binding targets for energy efficiency, introducing common definitions and systems for waste sorting and waste management. it deals also with the production phase, supporting the emergence of the market for secondary raw materials and the energy efficiency of buildings. this report serves as an input for the european commission, as the commission will introduce a new, revised and more comprehensive package of measures for the transition to the circular economy by the end of 2015.
in writing. i couldn't support the report. i consider the requirement to introduce mandatory separate collection of biological waste by 2020 to be problematic, the deadline is very difficult to meet. this is similar to the binding targets for the reduction and total prohibition of landfilling, and the text also makes the conditions for the operation of incineration plants worse.
‒ the european atomic energy community (euratom) is a comprehensive and autonomous body which oversees all aspects of the functioning of the nuclear industry, including the establishment and enforcement of safety standards for the protection of human health. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the nuclear industry.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the creation of a capital markets union because i believe that there is a need to achieve greater efficiency in capital markets while creating a fairer and more economically sound link between risk and return in eu capital markets. i believe that before presenting the relevant legislative proposals, the commission should carry out a thorough analysis of the current state of capital markets by country and, in a comprehensive economic analysis, assess the areas where union-wide barriers to investment through capital markets exist, assess the extent of those barriers and indicate the means by which they could be removed or minimised. where an unlawful approach would suffice, this should be the way to go. emphasis should be placed on identifying and assessing cross-border risks in eu financial and capital markets arising from institutional, legal and regulatory differences between member states and on finding appropriate solutions to facilitate cross-border capital flows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the com proposal for a european agenda on security. the text includes strong and balanced recommendations towards strengthening the european response to terrorism and the threats posed by foreign fighters and cyber-crime. the eu can bring added value in this area by helping member states to adopt a coordinated approach. one of the aims of this agenda is to make sure all actors involved in the fight against terrorism effectively cooperate and improve information exchanges when necessary. in this respect, the mandatory registration of persons suspected of terrorism in the schengen information system is a good approach.
in writing. i voted against because i do not agree with the eu's central intervention in the member states' power to determine their internal and external security policy. the resolution is also misleading in that it attempts to conflate security and social issues.
in writing. the motion for a resolution requires careful consideration and a few comments. the first concerns the misuse of the term 'radicalism' in the text, in a pejorative sense. you can't gamble with terms that have a wide range. i would welcome, for example, a radicalisation of the fight against corruption in the european union. also, the effort to prevent companies from escaping to tax havens would be more radical. furthermore, i fear that the radicalization of social and political movements fighting poverty through austerity measures or production cuts, for example through outsourcing, may not be prevented without suppressing human rights. the second point concerns terrorism and crime. i would point out that the proposal completely ignores the causes of the rising tide of terrorism and the danger of war, and i would point out the overlooked motive that is associated with this issue. and that's the sale of small arms and light weapons. it is still subject to insufficient international regulation. small arms and light weapons account for 60 to 90% of all conflict casualties. the weapons of terrorists and organized criminals are precisely these types of weapons. according to the geneva small arms survey, a number of union states are among the largest exporters of these weapons. including exports to markets and battlefields where control is lost. i couldn't support the text.
‒ we are at a time when threats to the internal security of the union are becoming more complex and unpredictable, with the result that any state is losing the capacity to fully address them. this includes in particular the issue of terrorism, violent extremism, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime. this therefore requires more than ever coordination at pan-european level with respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. i consider the programme proposed by the commission for the period 2015-2020 to be a high-quality and comprehensive document, emphasising its expected flexibility and capacity to respond to future challenges. i believe that at a pan-european level we must first tackle the root causes of crime, such as inequality, poverty and discrimination, which are likely to be present all the time, but it is up to us to what extent. i am firmly of the view that more investment is needed in preventive policies, even if repressive measures are also necessary. the european union is not isolated from the rest of the world, and therefore there is a need for closer cooperation with third countries, both logically and at economic and social level. in the light of a number of past cases, i would like to refer to one of the priorities of the european parliament's position, namely to improve the democratic and judicial oversight of intelligence services of third countries. the boundaries between security requirements and the protection of personal data exist and must be respected.
i did not support today's motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security because its final version is more dangerous than safe. the issue of security must be taken very seriously today and it cannot be used for populist purposes, either by restricting personal freedoms in the name of security or by treating security bodies with a priori suspicion in the name of fundamental human rights, as the final text does. the supervision and control of the exercise of all the powers of the state is one of the main components of a democratic state and, in the present state of advanced technology, it is certainly a challenge to ensure proper supervision, especially of the activities of the security forces. i believe that the only solution is parliamentary oversight, because the chain of the various inspection bodies has to end somewhere, and parliament is the right place to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for a european agenda on security. the text includes strong and balanced recommendations towards strengthening the european response to terrorism and the threats posed by foreign fighters and cyber-crime. the eu can clearly make a difference in the fight against terrorism. cooperation between member states is a key tool in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am seriously concerned at the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen. yemen is on the brink of civil war. since the houthi rebels’ advancement into the capital sana’a in september 2014, houthi rebels have been exploiting the power vacuum and fighting has been ongoing. the first victims of this violence are the civilians and according to un humanitarian agency more than 150 000 people have been displaced. the fighting has destroyed, damaged or disrupted at least five hospitals, 15 schools, yemen’s three main airports, two bridges, two factories and four mosques, as well as markets, power stations and water and sanitation facilities, ocha said. furthermore, the consequences of instability in yemen extend far beyond its borders, with terrorist cells such as al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula and the islamic state thriving amongst the current chaotic environment. it is thus critical that the international community react to this situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report calling on the eu and its member states to address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situation across the mena region through a holistic and ambitious approach. today, one of the main concerns in the region is the terror perpetrated by isis. this is why i strongly support the international campaign against isil/daesh and welcome the commitment of the coalition partners to working together under a common strategy. but i also believe that there is no answer to the crisis in the region without a regional dialogue involving all regional stakeholders, in particular the las, saudi arabia, egypt, turkey and iran.
in writing. at first glance, the right contains a number of positive thoughts and proclamations. for example, the rapporteur proposes even, he says, with a view to tangible concrete improvements for citizens in partner countries to strengthen the social dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, to step up the fight against poverty, to stimulate employment, to support education. but he admits that there is a lack of money for these eu-wide blasphemous goals. nor can the document hide the union's 'devotion' to the new ukrainian leadership or the policy's helplessness towards the other countries included in the epc. i would like to remind you of libya, israel and palestine, syria. the document had to acknowledge that eu policy had failed, for example, to prevent 'the doubling of networks for trafficking in arms, drugs and people in africa, with the consequent threat to the stability of europe'. it's got a lot of fun challenges, but i don't think even the reporter knows how to do them. in a policy towards 'neighbours of neighbours', the report calls for the promotion of bilateral relations, the strengthening of cross-border cooperation, people-to-people contacts. do sanctions against russia and specific individuals, including the paralysis of the work of parliamentary delegations, which have been responsible for the development of cross-border cooperation between the russian kaliningrad region and poland, contribute to the fulfilment of these general findings? since there are far more examples of failure or weakness in the epp than positive signals for its future, i cannot support this report in the ep.
in writing. ‒ in march this year, the european commission called for a public consultation on the european neighbourhood policy, to which the european parliament's report responds. i consider the european neighbourhood policy to be a fundamental pillar of the eu's foreign policy and at the same time one of its greatest challenges. the eu must be much more ambitious in this area, as inconsistency or underestimation has led and can continue to lead to instability in the wider world. now we're seeing the consequences of that in the case of ukraine. our approach must be strategic, coherent, but also specific, precisely targeted and based on detailed knowledge of the specificities of the countries concerned. the text of the document we adopted calls for the establishment of a position of eu special representative for relations with the south-eastern neighbours, which would undoubtedly lead to the strengthening of this policy and allow the dimension of the neighbourhood policy to be taken into account permanently in the wider foreign policy context. the key dimension of the neighbourhood policy must be security. it must include crisis management tools and support for the security structures of our neighbours. an ambitious neighbourhood policy, which is linked first and foremost to our internal security, will not be without relevant financial resources, which will be the subject of debate in the context of the 2017 review of the eu's external financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the review of european neighbourhood policy. indeed i believe in the importance and the necessity of the review of the enp. i also think that the revised enp should be able to provide a quick, flexible and adequate response to the situation on the ground, while also putting forward an ambitious strategic vision for developing relations with the neighbouring countries in both a bilateral and a multilateral framework.
in writing. - i supported this report because as the situation in neighbouring countries changes, so must our policy towards them. neighbouring countries are experiencing constant change, less stability and a deeper economic crisis due to an increasing number of long-term security challenges. partner countries should seek a peaceful solution to the current situation, in particular because conflicts are hampering the social, political and economic transformation of countries.
mr president, i would like to explain why i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the directive on the harmonisation of copyright. the directive has generated interest because of the so-called freedom of panorama. this provision, which was incorporated in the draft report by the committee on legal affairs, was finally omitted in the vote. this would mean restrictions on taking photographs or videos and displaying them in public places. i think it was a proposal that was not thought through enough and would have upset the balance between the relationship of authors and consumers that we're looking for. i think that this report does contain important references to access to cultural heritage through online platforms, also in the context of the appeal to legislators to allow easier access to educational materials. that is why i think it was good that this report was supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the copyright reform report. there are a number of strong ideas in the report, but most attention has centred on the so-called ‘freedom of panorama’. the text as adopted by the juri committee took what i would describe as an illiberal approach to this question. the amendment tabled to the paragraph by colleagues did not, in my opinion, clearly represent the sentiment of the many citizens who have taken an interest in this issue, so i felt that a better approach would be to delete the paragraph in its entirety.
in writing. on 9 july 2015, we voted on the report on the implementation of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, known by the media acronym 'freedom of panorama'. this news, unfortunately, has unleashed a huge media storm, completely without meaning. we all probably agree that it is absolutely essential that the law respond flexibly to developments in the world around us. it's not always like that. the issue of regulating undesirable behavior and protecting copyright on the internet is precisely the area where the law has long failed. it is very difficult to find common ground on how to respond to the latest developments. one of the main reasons is the existence of very different legal traditions in the legal systems of the different member states. the original text was a very ambitious proposal calling for greater harmonisation, the introduction of mandatory copyright exceptions and the introduction of a so-called single european copyright title. after complex and difficult negotiations, my colleagues have managed to negotiate compromise amendments which strike a balance between the protection of authors, users, citizens' rights of access to cultural goods and information, and the protection of local cultures and traditions, while not hampering the development of new technologies. since the plenary succeeded in getting the amendment on freedom of panorama removed, i decided to support the report.
in writing. i am fully aware of the importance of european copyright law. the european cultural industry has an annual turnover of around eur 540 billion and creates more than 7 million jobs across the eu. the debate on ms red's report was very complex from the outset. some are concerned about the fate of europe's cultural industry, which they see as being threatened by large global companies such as google. others point out that with the advance of digitization, it is time for copyright rules to change. i can agree with that, technology outpaces the law! however, after several months of intensive work, i have come to the conclusion that the eu is not currently ready for full harmonisation of copyright. this is due to the traditional historical differences in the arrangements between member states. after many meetings and bilateral discussions with the shadow rapporteurs, i believe that we have managed to find a balanced compromise across the political spectrum, one that guarantees a balance between the rights of artists, producers and users, while allowing everyone access to culture through copyright, which must serve society as a whole and not just commercial interests. in addition, because we were able to defend the freedom of panorama, which was a key factor for me in the vote, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society i supported the omission of this point from the report and therefore the retention of the existing legislation which gives member states the choice of either enshrining the freedom of panorama in full in their legal systems or restricting it with the consent of the copyright holders. the debate, which was heated and sometimes hysterical, with myths prevailing over reality, would not have occurred if the rapporteur had stuck to her original task of limiting her report to an analysis of the implementation of the directive in force, rather than arbitrarily taking it as a concept for revising the eu copyright legislation, which is one of the most complex and sensitive areas of eu law in the face of the dynamic development of modern technology.
in writing. european artists undeniably deserve to be strengthened and their copyright better protected. but that does not change the fact that we cannot allow the rights of european citizens to be reduced in a literal and reckless manner at the expense of this. that is why i voted against the amendment tabled by mr cavada in the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. as the media have reported extensively, this part of the report could have immense implications if it were to be followed in the future by the european commission. it is inconceivable that in an age of strong technological development, citizens' rights are restricted to such an extent that they simply cannot share the photographs they take in public spaces. not only could the adoption of this provision lead to restrictions on the dissemination of non-commercially produced images on social media, but it could also affect, for example, the growing trend of blogging or the use of online encyclopedias. although i support the wider use of electronic libraries to improve access to information or to limit the power of large corporations to the detriment of artists, which are some of the positive aspects that the report contained and for which i voted, i still have a bad taste in my mouth. the stench of the legal affairs committee allowing a citizen's depravity of such caliber to enter the plenary.
in writing. the copyright report by julie redová rightly raised concerns among the european public, including the czech public, in particular because of the paragraph proposing to restrict the so-called freedom of panorama. when the principle of freedom of panorama is applied, it means in practice that the person who records or expresses in any way (photographically, by drawing, film, etc.) a work placed in the public domain does not infringe copyright and does not need to obtain a licence. the right to panoramic views varies from one country to another, and the czech republic has a relatively high degree of freedom of panoramic views. while the problematic paragraph limited the purely commercial use of photographs, videos or other representations of works, its impact could have far wider consequences. i am therefore very pleased that, after internal discussions in the european parliament, within the political group and across the political spectrum, we have reached the decision to remove the proposed measure from the text and have adopted today a useful document that will serve as a basis for new commission legislative proposals. our goal for the future should be to improve copyright protection, but i consider and will always consider it unacceptable to make life unnecessarily complicated for ordinary internet users.
in writing. i decided to support this often misinterpreted proposal, since its aim is nothing less than to protect consumers and authors and to strengthen the single european market. copyright harmonisation will open up the entire european market to authors from different countries, make the same content available to all consumers and improve the competitiveness of european cultural production, which is essential for functioning in today's fast-changing technological world.
in writing. i supported the final version of this report because i believe that, although the initial text of the report in particular was somewhat out of date, the result was a balanced text that will allow us to continue the discussion on the reform of intellectual property rights in the european union in order to achieve a modern approach that respects the legitimate interests of creators, rightholders and users.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the initiative report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. with the digital single market, the european union is jumping into the digital era which, for the cultural industry, is a challenge as great as the opportunities it brings. therefore it is necessary to set out our intentions as regards the harmonisation of copyright across the eu, in prevision of a commission proposal. i supported the provisions recalling the necessity of addressing geo-blocking and ensuring the portability of rights, in respect of the freedom of movement on which the internal market is built: consumers should not be denied access to certain content based on their geographical location in the eu. i opposed the provision restricting the freedom of panorama because i believe one should be able to record images of a public landmark and use it as one wishes. public space is, by definition, public and its use should not be subject to any kind of authorisation. that is why i voted to delete the paragraph restricting the freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the proposal to restrict the so-called freedom of panorama and i am convinced that the current regulation in czech legislation is sufficient and that there is no need to seek harmonisation within the european union. i am aware that some eu member states, such as france, belgium, greece and italy, have this freedom of panorama limited in some way, but the amendment of the directive should not change the current situation where member states decide this themselves.
in writing. on 9 july 2015, i voted against the report on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy: an evaluation of the activities of the european foundation for democracy (efd) since its creation. i must say at the outset that i reject both the analyses of the eed's results and the very purpose of this organisation. i do not agree with the eed's activities, because they are based on the so-called democratisation regime, which means complete liberalisation/privatisation at the economic level. the most recent example of the eed's democracy-building efforts is the situation in ukraine. under the umbrella of 'democratization', the organisation's main objectives include funding various political parties. from my point of view, this is a clear interference in the internal politics of foreign, sovereign countries, the will to implement a political, economic and social system based exclusively on the majority right-wing capitalist system. i consider that both this organisation and the very objective of its neighbourhood policy violate the fundamental rules of public international law, since article 2.4 of the un charter already contains the principle of non-interference. i believe it is essential that we defend the right of all peoples to decide for themselves their future and their political, economic and social development. i only support a policy of cooperation based on equality and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this evaluation of activities of the european endowment for democracy. by voting for this report, i welcome the eed’s track record given the current challenging international environment. i also consider that it is fulfilling its main objective of ‘fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation’. for the future, i believe that the eed should continue to develop new innovative means and instruments for democracy assistance, including for political actors or activists, and to share best practices in order to adjust to the growing climate of restriction in a number of countries with authoritarian regimes.
in writing. i consider the work of the european foundation for democracy to be very useful. the edf fulfils its core mission of promoting and fostering democracy, in particular by fighting corruption and violence and by fostering dialogue on the diversity of political orientations. the edf does its utmost to meet the recommendations of the european parliament, and i therefore rate its work very positively.
in writing. at the strasbourg plenary session on 9 july 2015, we also voted on a resolution on the current situation in burundi. i abstained from voting on this resolution. for several reasons, as set out below. the proposal not only lacked more precise data on the number of people who were forced to flee the country, but the vague figure of 127 000 burundian refugees is, according to official sources, far from accurate. unfortunately, there are many more who have gone missing. the motion should also, in my opinion, have stated that the burundi constitutional court has clearly stated that the text of the constitution states unequivocally that the president can only be elected for two terms. however, mr nkurunziza does not count his first presidential term, despite publicly promising not to exceed the constitutional limit of two terms. this should have been clearly stated in the report. the situation in burundi is currently very difficult and many points of the proposal itself have not been sufficiently developed. however, at least this report informs the european public about the current, alarming situation in burundi, yet there are still many missing pieces of information, the absence of which makes the report not present the current situation in a realistic and up-to-date way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for an immediate halt to violence, that urges the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential election and calls on all parties involved in the electoral process. the conflict in the country needs now to come to an end and i call on all parties to resume dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament is joining in condemning the terrible crime committed in srebrenica two decades ago. to prevent similar crimes from being repeated, the context must also be kept in mind. the idea that the crimes of the civil war are committed by one side only, only causes pain and fuels hatred. we must not forget that the real crime was the war itself, which was taking place throughout the former yugoslavia. a war that has killed an estimated 140,000 people and made four million refugees. when we talk about the crimes of the serbs in bosnia and herzegovina, we must always remember that the blame lies with individuals, not with a nation. and let us also remember that the first ethnic cleansing of this terrible war was directed against the serbs in croatia. let me express my conviction that the horrors of the war in yugoslavia would not have occurred if the parties to the conflict had not been supported from abroad. and it wasn't just about diplomatic support. the balkans were flooded with foreign weapons during the war. this was done despite the embargo. there is still a lack of a truly expert and, above all, independent historical analysis of the nature of this war, even in this resolution, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on srebrenica to commemorate and honour all the victims of the srebrenica genocide and of all the atrocities during the wars in the former yugoslavia. by this vote i also wanted to express my condolences to and solidarity with the families of the victims.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, a strong civil society is vital to any democratic process. in congo, civil organisations have an exceptional role in filling the void of a state that fails to provide fully for its citizens. peaceful and civic engagement should never be punished. congo cannot silence the violence of its people or deny them the right to mobilise. the fact that recent violations have specifically targeted youth movements and the political opposition is additionally disturbing. as a first step towards reconciliation with its own people, yves makwambala, fred bauma and all arab political prisoners must be released. the congolese authorities should make use of the critical benefits brought by an active civil society. a dynamic civil society not only keeps the state in check but also brings the community the capacity to resolve common problems. it is time for the congolese authorities to celebrate this as a virtue rather than attack it as a threat.
in writing. it is symbolic that we are taking an interest in human rights in the democratic republic of congo today in brussels. i don't think i'm going to offend anyone by recalling some historical facts. according to the encyclopædia britannica, when the belgian king acquired the congo as a colony in 1885, it had a population of 20 million. in a quarter of a century, the population of the country has dropped to 8 million. i am reminded of this because belgium, as a constitutional monarchy, already had a model constitution with a noble declaration of human rights. how many years did it take for the ideals of human rights to apply to this colony? two world wars were fought before the republic of congo gained independence in 1960. today, too, many africans, especially in the former belgian congo, will no doubt look with contempt on european recommendations on human rights. but i don't think we should be discouraged. we just need to do more by example, less by pressure and less by mentoring. we must honor the traditions of the land and remember the greatness of men like patrice lumumba. and we also have to get rid of the illusion that a modern civil society can be built on the basis of poverty and illiteracy. we must help in these areas if we are not to pave the way for a new mobutu to come to power instead of perfecting democracy. human rights in developing countries cannot be dictated by domestic law or imposed by western armies.
in writing. the two activists we are talking about today unfortunately represent a number of similar fates of people fighting for human rights all over the world. it's our duty to give these people a voice. only with their help can we achieve, for example, that free elections are preceded by a free exchange of views in a free press or the realization of the right of assembly. only such elections can be considered free. i therefore call for the release of all persons detained in the democratic republic of congo for political reasons only.
author. mr president, i am pleased that we have managed to find common ground with the other political groups and that we are today presenting a strong joint text that reflects our position and our determination to assist pastors michael yates and peter yen reith, who are facing the death penalty for their christian faith in the event of convictions. thank you for the inspiration for this text, mr. tőkés. in the 1990s, during the struggle of south sudanese christians against the khartoum regime, i visited south sudan several times. it was a time of famine, a time when the christian dinka tribe was fighting for independence, a time when khartoum was using soviet tanks and armored personnel carriers in the civil war, a time when arab invaders were taking black christians in large numbers into slavery and selling them to other arab states. not even the international community's opposition has stopped the khartoum regime from violating human rights. the case of the two pastors is just the tip of the iceberg. let's help save the lives of michael and peter.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the case of the two christian pastors who are now being persecuted in sudan is not unique. in the last five years, unfortunately, there have been dozens of such cases of persecuted christians, specifically in sudan. hundreds have fled their homes since the civil war, and there is a real need to stand up for christians in sudan. it is intolerable that a minority, now only three percent, should be denied their rights and be unable to practice their faith in a free country. so i am calling on the commission to go beyond its framework of inaction and really start to act, not just for these two pastors, but for all the christians who are being persecuted in sudan, immediately. in the case of marjam jahja ibrahim in 2014, the assistance of the european parliament, the european union was effective. that's why i believe it will be effective today.
mr president, commissioner, the disastrous human rights situation in sudan has been the subject of much discussion here, and i will not repeat it. but we also have a ray of hope, because exactly one year ago, shortly after our resolution was adopted, a christian woman, maryam yahya ibrahim, was released from death row in sudan. so our efforts are not in vain. the european union should recall the council recommendation of june 2013 and consider providing development assistance where freedom of religion is not respected. in light of the case of maryam yahya ibrahim, i believe that our resolve today and our efforts can be successful as they were last year.
mr. chairman, laura, you know i appreciate your diligence and i want to pay you a big compliment for the work you did on this report. however, it is the fundamental right of our group to disagree with you and to bring forward an alternative text of its own resolution, which i personally consider to be more balanced. i'd like to respond to a colleague over there who was not willing to discuss anything. my dear fellow, you may be able to hear me, but it is the fundamental right of our faction to disagree with this text. that's why we're bringing in an alternative. i would also like to reply to mrs lunack. it's a little cheap to get into our text. our text is no better or worse than laura's text. our lyrics are different. and that's the principle. the principle of democracy is debate. i would like to bring two important points to the human rights discussion. the first point is the child's right to both parents. i consider that absolutely essential. in norway, children's rights to have two parents, their biological parents, are constantly violated. and we can't turn a blind eye to this state of affairs. children are taken from deaf-mute people who can't speak or hear. and that needs to be criticized by the european union here on this soil. and the second thing i want to talk about. we talked about women's rights, let's talk about men's rights too. i've been stalked myself. and when i came, i was laughed at. and no one talks about what men might be going through. and let's talk about men having rights too. it's very important. we men are ashamed to be men. and that's the third thing i wanted to talk about. these are the rights of victims of crime. i think there's very little emphasis on that and they're quite laughed at. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. - i thank you for your question, because i can explain what i didn't get to say because the president was too strict with me. yes, you are right. it's a right, a fundamental right to choose between the two versions. there's no better or worse. each reflects the thing from a different side. and that's why we've put an alternative text in place to allow for this discussion and to allow for things that are not mentioned in the text to be mentioned. i was just giving laura a big compliment for her work and her diligence. please accept our work, our diligence.
dear reporter, thank you for a very good report. however, it lacked some important themes. for example, the report makes no mention of the rise of modern slavery in the european union. because we know that there are 3,000 vietnamese children in the uk who are forced to work for drug manufacturers. i consider this to be completely unacceptable and the european parliament should demand that this inhumane practice be brought to an end. your report mentions the negative consequences of the non-conceptual policy of cuts on european employment and social policy. however, i would like to point out that the different specificities of the different professions must also be taken into account. i consider it reprehensible that, for example, miners in some countries of the european union, including the czech republic, are not entitled to early retirement. especially when we consider how physically and mentally demanding their work is and that there is a very real risk that they will not live to see the unimpeded border. but i am very pleased, madam rapporteur, that you have given your attention to the european citizens' initiative, the cia torture on european soil, the nsa programme and other subjects.
mr president, this saturday in prague i met with the kurdish commander nesrin abdullah, who played a major role in the liberation of kobani from isis. the kurdish armed forces play a crucial role in the fight against isis and deserve the support of the european union. last year, the czech republic supplied 500 tons of ammunition to the iraqi kurds. i call on the governments of the european union to support the syrian kurds, wherever they can, with ammunition and infantry weapons. syrian kurds greatly appreciate the coalition air strike against isis, but at the same time believe that the only way to eradicate this evil is by ground operation. i therefore recommend that the european union initiate negotiations with nato on this possibility. it would be a good gesture if the european parliament invited representatives of the syrian kurdish fighters to brussels or strasbourg to present themselves to us. let's not forget that the existence of isis is one of the main causes of mass migration to europe.
i would like to thank you, mr president, for submitting this report, because i think it is really very important and it goes to the heart of the matter. this raises the question, to some extent, of how much our conscience can still sell itself for. for what are companies doing business in the european area willing to sell their conscience in other countries, where, for example, they carry out activities that are absolutely unthinkable in the czech republic or in the european union. so it's a report on the extent to which all human rights are actually transferable to other countries. and i think we should have a really, really strong debate about that. i feel that there are a number of fundamental human rights that are universal, that really represent a value for which you can somehow put aside all the other problems, such as employment, gdp, etc. but there are certainly aspects of human rights that the rest of the world simply does not share with us. and that's the boundary we should be looking for.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to present to you the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. the report draws on a wealth of knowledge from education systems and the business environment and concludes with a clear conclusion: entrepreneurial skills are required, can be taught and can be learned. it's good for the individual and good for society. the report has been the subject of 225 amendments to the original report, which has generated a great deal of interest and is the result of very good cooperation with the rapporteurs of all the groups, to whom i also express my thanks. the european parliament's report is a response to the high level of youth unemployment, which in some regions is as high as 50%. the european union institutions have repeatedly paid attention to promoting young entrepreneurship. however, this report is the only one to deal with this subject in isolation. we agreed, among other things, that young people need to develop a sense of initiative and entrepreneurship. we emphasize the social dimension of business. our report highlights the role of non-formal and informal education, which is the domain of the non-profit sector in particular, and exceptionally of companies, and which needs to be recognised and promoted. the report deals in detail with the definition of entrepreneurial skills and the possibilities for teaching them. the european parliament affirms that 'a sense of initiative and entrepreneurship' is one of the key competences for lifelong learning. it includes, among others, creativity, the ability to innovate, to take risks, financial and media literacy, and to plan and manage projects. the report focuses on the role of the european commission and the council and calls for better use of the instruments they have. for the european commission, this resolution represents a major challenge. in view of the proactive approach taken by dg eac so far, we take the liberty of setting specific dates and tasks. for example, for the commission to strengthen the promotion of entrepreneurship education as one of the objectives of the erasmus+ programme for the next financial period after 2020 and for these skills to be included in the compulsory content of the training programmes. the european commission should include measures related to training in this area in the european semester evaluation indicators from 2016. it should then submit a report on best practices in this area by the end of 2017. we are aware that member states are not waiting for this resolution, but are already working on developing entrepreneurial skills themselves, albeit in a very diverse and insufficiently systematic way. the european parliament therefore identifies measures that can help them, such as start-ups, mentoring, facilitating access to loans, crowdfunding or partnerships between businesses and universities, support for business incubators and, above all, linking education with practice. the funding sources for these activities will be the european social fund, the youth employment initiative, the european union programme for employment and social innovation, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and others. as teachers play a key role, we call on member states to initiate improvements in their training already within the pedagogical curricula. the european parliament sees great potential in promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and we therefore ask the commission to present to parliament, by the end of this term, an evaluation report on the progress made in this area. i thank my colleagues once again for their cooperation and i believe that the measures we are proposing will help to improve the quality of education and improve employment. business is for profit. for the entrepreneur, for the individual, for the employee, and for society as a whole.
in writing. i thank my colleague, mr diacon, for presenting a report which i consider very good and i am glad that we unanimously supported it in committee. the new integrated approach to cultural heritage includes a number of aspects that are often overlooked, such as the need to promote both tangible i.e. monuments and intangible cultural heritage folklore or theatre. the report also sends a good message that culture is of immense importance not only for our identity and leisure, but also for our economy and education. i would like to emphasize these aspects. cultural heritage is a source of growth and should be understood and promoted as such. cultural monuments attract tourists, and if they are alive with their content, they can serve as a great educational tool for younger generations. the report also wisely addresses the financial support for culture, calling, among other things, for breaking the project bottleneck to better invest in cultural facilities. the exchange of best practices or the promotion of the mobility of cultural workers is emphasised. i am pleased to have been able to make a substantial contribution to it in my role as shadow rapporteur and i appreciate the excellent cooperation with the rapporteur and other colleagues. i look forward to the adoption of the report tomorrow and to the fact that it will become the text from which further debate and practical action in support of european culture will flow.
in writing. it is necessary to recognize the sad fact that at least 748 million people lack permanent access to safe drinking water and that one third of the world's population lacks basic sanitation and hygiene facilities, which are alarming facts. as a result, the right to health is under threat, diseases are spreading, causing suffering and death, and development is severely hampered. the sad fact is that 4,000 children die every day from infectious diseases caused by poor water quality and inadequate sanitation, and 3.5 million people die every year from waterborne infectious diseases. we have to change that. the right2water citizens' initiative has been supported by almost 1.9 million citizens from all eu member states. i hope and at the same time i clearly call on the commission to come forward with adequate legislative proposals in the foreseeable future, in line with the current main objective of the european citizens' initiative!
in writing. the european citizens' initiative is a new mechanism of participatory democracy which, from 2012, will allow citizens of the european union to directly influence and shape the political agenda. citizens' initiative water and sanitation are a human right! water is a public good, not a commodity!', known as right2water, received 1.6 million verified signatures from citizens from all eu countries at the time of its submission, making it the first successful european citizens' initiative. in view of this fact and the mass movements of citizens in the individual member states, the signatories and organisers of the initiative expected a corresponding response from the european commission. instead, they received a completely vague answer that lacked any ambition. the commission has not put forward any relevant legislative proposal, which was a key requirement of the right2water initiative. the european parliament therefore decided to respond with an own-initiative report and to get the commission to honour its commitments. however, we are witnessing an attempt to weaken this report by introducing an alternative resolution which lacks all the key elements voted on in the envi committee. this alternative resolution is not supported by the right2water initiative and looks more like a position paper of the ppe supported by the ecr. i therefore appeal to all my colleagues in the czech republic not to support the alternative epp resolution, which is not only not in line with what the citizens want, but which completely undermines the whole mechanism of the european citizens' initiative.
mr president, cloning is increasing the already dangerous way in which we produce food today and is taking agriculture in a totally unnatural direction. the cloning process results in a higher probability of miscarriage in cattle and pigs and an increased incidence of abnormal and difficult births. it has no environmental, social or health benefits, and therefore, fortunately, animal cloning for economic purposes is not currently used in the eu. however, it is used in some third countries such as the usa. it is not just ready-made food that needs to be protected from european standards, which are currently threatened by ttip, because animal cloning in the us has reached gigantic numbers and there is a danger that americans will want to export them to the eu. i therefore urge the commission to take this into account in the negotiation process, along with the public's negative opinion of cloning. i will vote in favour of the proposed restrictive report and thus hear the voices of the many individuals and civil society organisations who have approached me in the past weeks. i hope that this parliament will not return to this subject under the guise of ttip.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for this proposal, because i consider the report presented to be of very high quality. in my view, the ban on animal cloning is appropriate, as it is in the interests of protecting both human health and animal welfare. the expert findings of the european food safety authority on the negative consequences of animal cloning on animal welfare in the form of severe and fatal damage cannot be ignored. in view of the lack of conclusive studies on the safety of food produced from cloned animals, i am also in favour of a ban on food from cloned animals and their offspring. on the other hand, i believe that the ban on cloning goes too far when it also applies to the import and marketing of germinal products derived from cloned animals. a ban formulated in this way may lead to the loss of valuable genetic material and thus contribute to reducing the competitiveness of european farmers. i do not think that is desirable, especially at a time when european agriculture is facing serious problems and needs incentives to increase efficiency. the report raises a number of questions, from traceability to genetic modification. these are all questions that european consumers are asking themselves. and i also ask: what do we want to get out of the animal? was that god's purpose? we're not opening up the so-called pandora's box?
madam president, i would like to focus for just one minute on two aspects of the problem under consideration. and that's the question, first of all, of how to really effectively protect local markets, because that's the thing that i think is very important for the european union. protect those who create jobs, and not just jobs at the level of the european area, but also, for example, those who protect the countryside. i am a member of the agri committee and i am aware that many farmers, many producers are very much affected by this illegal activity. i think that supply chain security is also mentioned in the specific commission proposal and that is something that we really should pay close attention to. the second question concerns the coordination of procedures at the level of the union institutions, and i think that olaf's activities have considerable reservations. the commission itself notes the considerable problems of delays and delays in these procedures. and that i think we should resolve ourselves by sweeping up in front of our own backyard.
‒ it is important to protect workers against all forms of forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking. currently, 880,000 people in the european union alone are suffering from new forms of slavery, compared with 21,000,000 worldwide. i welcome the adoption of this protocol as a tool in the fight against these forms of terrorism and i fully support accession to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 of the forced labour convention of the international labour organization (ilo). this protocol provides necessary updates for the convention adopted in 1930 in order to combat forced labour. new forms of slavery with an international dimension have emerged and it is time to increase state cooperation and dedicate more resources to it. the protocol also includes provision requiring member states to take specific actions to prevent forced labour and ensure its victims find access to remedies. such policies are fully consistent with eu objectives and legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request by the prosecutor-general of poland to waive the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
mr president, i would like to use my explanation of vote to call on the eu institutions to devote more attention to protecting the internal market, and of course its free and fair competition, which is often seriously undermined by the importation of counterfeit products, goods of poor quality and which clearly infringe the right to fair competition. this is undoubtedly true, but it must be borne in mind that it is also important for consumer protection to prosecute fraud connected with this illegal smuggling of goods, and to a certain extent to be aware of the dangers of this. and that is the question of the functioning of olaf, which has shown very long delays in its investigation. i think that there is a need for significant progress in this direction and it is important that the next initiatives are better targeted at the functioning of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the proposal to reject the council position. it is important that a more robust customs fraud prevention and detection system be enabled and cooperation between member states on these matters be increased. in particular, a single eu database should be put in place to gather all information regarding goods entering or transiting through the eu.
mr president, i would just like to point out that this report is balancing on a certain edge. on the one hand, there is no doubt that there is a demand by many animal welfare organizations to curb the killing of seals, which in many cases is actually cruel and brutal violence against these animals. on the other hand, there is the requirement to respect, of course, national differences, certain customs, certain traditions. and in that sense, i think there is a certain balance in the report, precisely in respect of inuit culture and customs, which should not be favoured to the detriment of the seals. we must respect national customs, but we must always protect animal rights. it's very difficult to find the border.
in writing. the report by mr buşoi deals with the trade in seal products. it should be noted that seal hunting is an integral part of the socio-economic life, nutrition, culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities and contributes significantly to their development, providing them with food and continuing the traditional existence of the community. at the same time, however, it is necessary to take due account of animal welfare. the report seeks to limit seal hunts to those that contribute to the livelihood of indigenous communities, under strict commission supervision, with the member states concerned regularly informing the commission of compliance with all measures. as i consider the report to be more than balanced, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. i supported the revision of the regulation on trade in seal products, as it aligns the legislation to the recommendations and binding wto decisions on trade in seal products. the text abolishes the existing exception on marine resource management, as these catches cannot be distinguished from commercial catches. the report also amends the proposal on the indigenous community exemption, in particular taking into account the right of inuit or other indigenous communities to self-determination. i consider important the provision referring to the right of citizens to be duly informed that seal products placed on the eu market and derived from hunts organised by inuit and other indigenous communities have a legal origin. in addition, if it is shown that the numbers of seals caught under the so-called inuit exemption correspond to commercial catches, it will be possible to limit the quantities of products derived from these catches that can be placed on the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed regulation on trade in seal products. this regulation intends to comply with wto recommendations as regards exceptions to the ban on trade in seal products. until now the eu authorised an exception as regards maritime resource management (mrm); such exception is no longer needed. the second exception concerns the trade in seals conducted by inuits: seal hunting is a long-term tradition and is still today essential for their community. in accordance with the right to self-determination and the indigenous peoples’ right to traditional life styles, such an exception may remain and these products may be placed on the eu market, provided animal welfare is respected and limits are set out on the number of seal products which can be put on the eu market.
mr president, i also supported this report, of course, because i think that the ban on animal cloning is absolutely right. in the absence of conclusive safety studies on food produced from cloned animals, there is no doubt that we must protect both human health and animal welfare. however, i did not support an absolute ban on cloning as far as valuable genetic material is concerned. i am convinced that in this case the ban may lead to problems in the agricultural sector, which may become uncompetitive, inefficient. and i think that european agriculture needs a major boost for its further development. as regards the import and marketing of germinal products derived from animal clones, i think we are too bound by our view of a simple ban on animal cloning.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislation because i do not believe it will help animal welfare, but instead will only limit research while adding costs for our farmers. currently, there is no cloned animal meat being sold and this is not likely in the near future. we do not want to make our farmers, who are already in crisis, now have to pay for the introduction of an unworkable traceability system for a problem that does not exist. this is just a waste of money and more red tape without increasing animal welfare.
in writing. i voted against this proposal because it goes beyond the scope of directive 98/58/ec and, contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, regulates an area which member states can regulate without any problems.
in writing. animal reproductive cloning is currently an assisted reproduction technique that is still developing. this is a subject of enormous public interest, as evidenced by the endless number of disagreement emails i have received from concerned citizens who have expressed 100 percent opposition to the legalisation of this technology in the eu. the european food safety authority has repeatedly stated in its opinions that at present there are health problems associated with this technique, not to mention the ethical issue of this technique. that's why i voted against legalizing this technology.
in writing. i abstained on the moi/sommer report. the reason is that i do not agree with the tightening of the commission proposal, which the ep has agreed to. cloning is a concern, but it also offers possibilities that need to be explored in the laboratory. a firm and permanent ban significantly undermines this research, because a firm and unlimited ban undermines the interest in this research. the commission proposal seemed to me balanced and sufficient, since it limited itself to a temporary suspension of the use of cloning for food production purposes and to the placing on the market of live clones (animal clones). this interim ban was to be followed by a review based on the development of knowledge on cloning and the progress in the use of this technique in non-commercial applications. the prohibition should exclude cloning carried out in the framework of research for the conservation of rare breeds or endangered species and for the production of medicinal products and medical devices. i regret that the ep has taken a radical view of this problem and has decided not to take the sensible path.
in writing. i supported the draft report proposing to tighten up the commission's original proposals to stop animal cloning. the commission has proposed to suspend the use of the cloning technique in the eu for the commercial marketing of live cloned animals and embryos and the marketing of food products from cloned animals (meat, milk, etc.). parliament not only refused to clone animals but also called for a ban on the import of cloned animals, which was not included in the commission's original proposal, so that the commission offered only a half-solution. cloning is itself primarily an ethical problem. on the one hand, it allows more efficient work with high-quality animal pieces, on the other hand, it is shown to have a very negative impact on the donor and, in particular, the recipient of the cloned egg, in particular in the form of increased health problems and frequent high pain. the ep report proposes a ban on the production of germinal products (sperm, oocytes and embryos) from clones for the purpose of reproducing animals (offspring of clones) by traditional reproductive techniques, in addition to cloning animals. there is scientific evidence that cloning practices cause poor living conditions for farmed females and offspring of clones also in farmed fish and poultry, although less significantly than in mammals. the ep has therefore pushed for the amendment to apply the measure to all farmed animals, and not just cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae, as proposed by the commission.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the cloning and reproduction of animals for commercial purposes because it builds on the european parliament's consistent, long-standing negative stance on the issue of cloning and expresses serious objections to the placing of animal clones, their descendants and products on the eu market. the issue of cloning is a highly sensitive one for european citizens, for example the use of clones in the food industry is strongly opposed by most consumers. legislation must therefore respond effectively to these concerns.
in writing. i abstained on the moi/sommer report. there are many ways of looking at cloning, and there is no black and white view of cloning. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in food. yet, cloning research is still in its infancy, and many questions remain unanswered. but we will not get the answers to these questions by banning cloning altogether. instead, we should open up a space for research that addresses the concerns associated with cloning and, at the same time, the opportunities it can bring. while the commission proposal was factual and unbiased, it was overshadowed by the prejudices of the anti-cloning community in the ep, thus devaluing it. i think it is wrong that the ep has created obstacles by its vote to the thorough professional examination and mapping of the cloning issue, and thus to the eu's ability to take a qualified decision on it.
in writing. i supported today's legislative resolution of the european parliament calling for a ban on animal cloning. i welcome the fact that the plenary has taken a clear stance on this ethical issue and has thus heard the majority of eu citizens. it is now up to the member states to decide on their position in the council.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the report on the cloning of animals kept and reproduced for farming purposes because some of its provisions are technically non-feasible. i support a provisional ban on the use of a cloning technique which does not prevent research and scientific progress. on the contrary i am not in favour of extending the ban to descendants of clones and food products because the traceability requirements would impose an excessive burden on farmers. similarly, the trade and import of these products is already happening and banning it is unfeasible unless we end all trade in animals or in animal products with countries authorising it, which would not be beneficial for the european consumers.
in writing. in voting on mrs sommer's report, i voted against the adoption of a further ban on the clone. in my view, the current council directive 98/58/ec adequately addresses the whole process of assisted reproduction techniques. moreover, the scientific evidence does not support the arguments used in the report. i therefore voted in accordance with the czech position on this material.
mr president, i also want to say that i did not support this report. in my opinion, to promote one's own worldview and human rights in such a restricted form is not happy. and for that reason i think that many of my colleagues, and not just those in the epp group, did not support this report. i would also point out that if the european union were to try to impose its vision of fundamental rights and freedoms on the outside world in this way, i think it might stumble to some extent. i recognize that there are fundamental rights in that category of the kind of inalienable, the very natural rights, like the right to liberty, to life, to human treatment without torture. so these are really rights that we can continue to promote around the world. but the other vision of economic, social, cultural and other rights can be very limited, and for this reason i also call for caution in promoting this vision of the world to our neighbours.
in writing. ‒ while the ferrara report had a number of elements with which i wholeheartedly agree, such as the condemnation of rising anti-semitism and trivialisation of racist and xenophobic acts, i remain of the belief that the overall eu approach to the migration crisis is not the right one. therefore, i was unable to vote in favour of this report in the end.
in writing. - i voted against it. i find absurd calls for eu member states to support trade unions and employers' organisations in their efforts to adopt a diversity and non-discrimination strategy with special regard to lgbti people. i do not agree with the statement which 'strongly condemns the security protection of the european union's borders' and the construction of fences on the border of the schengen area.
in writing. i supported the proposal by rapporteur laura ferrara calling for greater cooperation between the institutions in the field of fundamental rights and for the possibility of sanctions for non-compliance. eu citizens must be guaranteed their rights, and the ability to enforce them on the state is therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ the ferrara report was a very good report, tackling important issues such as the rising anti-semitism and trivialisation of racist and xenophobic acts, but i had to vote against it as the approach proposed on migration was in my point of view the wrong one. the eu will not solve this situation with mandatory quotas.
mr president, i would like to point out that this report is indeed of a very high quality in my view, and i was happy to support it, and since i was not able to speak in the debate yesterday, i would like to point out that many of the points made in the report are, in my view, to some extent transferable to the national level. i wish more candidates for minister were subjected to such pressure, such interrogation, such public debate. however, i would like to point out one issue, and that is the question of the timing of individual public hearings, because those candidates who are, as it were, at the end of the timeline are already at a certain disadvantage. and this, because it's tactical between the groups, this question of the time limit, when someone is at the end and put at this disadvantage, this report doesn't give a sufficient answer. i don't have any suggestions for how to handle this myself. in any case, it might be worthwhile to think about it.
in writing. on tuesday 8 september 2015, we voted in plenary on the report on the procedures and practice of commissioners' hearings lessons learned from the 2014 hearings. i must say that, having directly participated in a large part of the hearings of the new commissioners in 2014 as envi coordinator and having also been the shadow rapporteur for the envi sub-report on this document, i have a firm opinion on this issue from the outset. in the envi committee, we have already seen, in the context of the preparation of the sub-report, the efforts of the major political groups to make the whole process of selecting commissioners in the european parliament less transparent and easier for them, since the candidates proposed are usually drawn from these groups. throughout the negotiations, i have encountered proposals to reduce the time taken for commissioners to be 'interviewed' by the committee plenary, to reduce the number of possible questions candidates might face, or to make the final committee opinion on a candidate a vote by the coordinators rather than the full plenary. on the other hand, the report also managed to incorporate some good elements, such as a more in-depth examination of the financial background of each candidate by the juri committee or the proposal that member states should submit at least two candidates, one male and one female, in order to ensure gender balance. that is why i decided not to vote against this report in the end, but i abstained.
in writing. i have a very fresh memory of the commissioner hearings in 2014. the report we voted on today, in my view, proposes a fundamental change in that the candidate would not be voted on by the whole committee after the so-called barbecuing, but only by the coordinators of the individual political groups. i'm afraid i can't agree to this change. however, i also welcome the efforts to achieve a greater gender balance, i.e. that member states should nominate two candidates of the opposite sex for the post of commissioner, and i also welcome the efforts to increase transparency in the financial interests of candidates. i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report on the procedures and practice of commissioners' hearings experience of the 2014 hearings, i consider it a good tradition that the ep reflects in this form the processes under way in relation to the election of the new european commission. while the main venue for hearings should remain the committees, i consider it useful, where justified, for hearings to take place in another format, for example as a meeting of the conference of presidents or a meeting of the conference of committee chairs. i also welcome suggestions to make hearings more efficient and transparent, such as allowing the questionnaire to react directly to the answers of the commissioner-designate.
in writing. i supported the report on the procedures and practice of commissioners' hearings experience gained during the 2014 hearings, as i believe that it contains a sober assessment of the experience gained in the past year and suggests adjustments to future practice that can contribute to greater efficiency and clarity of the whole process. it should be said that the practice of hearing commissioner-designate is indeed only an established practice, not regulated by the treaties, and that it is therefore necessary to continuously evaluate and improve these customary rules. it is not a bureaucratic exercise, but a necessary and useful reflection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at improving the hearings of commissioners and the overall selection process. from my experience last september i am in favour of reducing the number of questions meps can ask to the commissioner-designate to ensure a more in-depth discussion. if there is no consensus on a candidate, an additional enquire should be conducted through written questions and if necessary through another hearing. the scope of the declaration of interests should also be broaden so that all commissioners-designate are free of any suspicion.
in writing. i supported the owninitiative report by mrs schaake on two main points. first, it calls for clarification of the norms and standards that private entities use to develop their systems. the report points out that in the digital domain, private actors play an increasingly important role in all spheres of social activity, but there are still no safeguards to prevent them from unduly restricting fundamental rights and freedoms. in addition, as private actors thus play a more active role in assessing the legality of content and in developing cybersecurity and surveillance systems, their activities may have a negative impact on human rights worldwide. second, the report did not hide the activities of the national security agency, which were exposed by edward snowden. the report notes, for example, that the nsa has accumulated a large number of so-called zero day exploits it security vulnerabilities that are not yet known to the public or to the vendor, which weaken encryption protocols and products and frustrate global efforts to improve it security. according to the report, the active mass surveillance of citizens and the spying on political leaders by the nsa for the active cooperation of some eu member states, revealed by edward snowden, have seriously undermined the credibility of eu human rights policy and weakened global confidence in the benefits of information and communication technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which calls on the commission to take further action (§ 16, 38, 44 and others), to set up expert committees (§ 54) and even to set up a new fund (§ 8).
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by the results achieved by the parliament on the important issue of human rights. the vote on the human rights and technology report shows that the european union is committed the rights of privacy and access to technology for all. it has become a worrying trend in some countries that the government will monitor and track communications on a mass scale, without any regard for an individual's privacy. these activates operate on the outskirts of the law and can undermine the pillars of democracy. when we stand idly by and let the actions continue, we undermine our own credibility in regards to human rights. in addition, we need to promote and protect those who bring attention to these privacy concerns. whistle-blowers, journalists and those who defend human rights should have proper protections, so that they have the ability to call attention to injustice, without fear of retribution. the eu must promote unrestricted access to the internet, this includes countering the criminalization of encryption tools, censorship by passing tools, and privacy tools as a whole. the eu has long been a champion of human rights, and it is time that we include digital rights to the equation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which tackles an important issue which is a growing concern: the human rights violations through technological systems. technological developments play an important role in enabling the expression of fundamental freedoms such as access to information, freedom of assembly or right to privacy. however, these same technologies may be misused and result in censorship or surveillance. the report puts forward a list of recommendations for the eu to improve its standards as regards the use and export of ict systems to third countries. in particular, the eu should better encrypt its communication, seek the extension of international protection for whistle-blowers, conduct a human right impact assessment on its own ict policies.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. i appreciated the criticism of the common agricultural policy and the call for simplification of its rules, but i could not support the calls and requests made to the member states (§§ 39-41 et seq.).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims at optimising the use of eu subsidies for the common agricultural policy. the cap spending scheme is particularly complex because of the diversity of farming scheme throughout the eu and may lead to burdensome control procedures. the cost of the controls on the implementation of the cap amounts to eur 4 billion. i think it is urgent to find the right balance between leading an effective financial control and imposing less administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy represents a key item in the union´s budget also because it absorbs an extraordinary part of it. nevertheless, it has been and continues to be a very complex and not transparent expenditure over which there is a little control that tends to be very costly. this of course leads to a very high error rates, as determined by the court of auditors, and invites fraudulent activities. we need to simplify the administrative burden to make the process less bureaucratic but at the same time we need ensure sufficient monitoring over the finances in this area. i therefore support this call for increased quality above quantity with regard to financial controls, which will not cut a significant part of the cap’s budget, in the form of the single audit scheme. the controls need be effective as to secure financial interests of the european tax payers and need to be less burdensome and costly for the very same reason. i also believe that the member states should take responsibility for quality on-the-spot controls that are crucial for ensuring the correct usage of the european budget.
in writing. on 8 september 2015, i supported the report on family businesses in europe in the plenary session in strasbourg. 85% of all european businesses are so-called family businesses, which today also generate more than 60% of private sector jobs. the huge differences in the typology and structure of these bodies across the eu justify the need for new legislation by the european institutions. most family businesses have special relationships with both the territory in which they operate and their employees. however, it should be borne in mind that not all family businesses always show the positive effects mentioned above. some family businesses today rival the world's largest corporations. the text of the report calls for the promotion of this type of business through soft law, and i therefore believe that the report could have a positive impact on this type of business. unfortunately, the report lacks a proper definition of a family business which would exclude large family businesses (corporate size) as beneficiaries of these support measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am fundamentally opposed to the eu adopting any legislation on family businesses, to the eu adopting binding definitions of family businesses and to pointless, wasteful programmes such as 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs'.
in writing. i supported the report on family businesses in europe, which have a significantly higher equity ratio than other businesses, and it is this high equity ratio that often ensures the economic stability of the business and the stability of the economy as a whole, while leaving the possibility for further investment in the business. i think it is a useful idea to create a single point of contact for businesses that could act as a contact body for family businesses, especially in relation to specific issues related to european legislation and access to eu funds. on the contrary, i consider it superfluous to set up a permanent working group within the commission services to carry out administrative reporting.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by parliament’s vote on the family businesses in europe report. family businesses are a cornerstone to the eu’s vast economy. they are the single biggest source of employment in the private sector, and have played an enormous role in renewal and growth in the european economy as a whole. in addition, they provide good paying jobs to europeans across the region and play an important role in encouraging minorities and under-represented groups to participate in local economies. to help support this integral part of the economy, i would like to call on member states and the commission to help develop digital entrepreneurship and skills so that family businesses can take complete advantage of emerging and online technologies. i would also urge the commission to analyse the current legislation which affects family businesses to identify any issues and barriers to growth and success. family businesses play a crucial role in our economy, and we should do everything in our power to help them thrive.
in writing. i supported the report on family businesses in europe because i agree with the assessment of the role of family businesses on which this report is based. family businesses are an important part of the economy of each member state. family businesses focus on the long-term success of their businesses, providing much-needed stability in the labour market and contributing to well-functioning local communities. these qualities of family businesses should be recognised and efforts made to improve the conditions for their business so as to ensure their long-term survival even if a new generation of owners takes over. this is not an infringement of the competences of the member states, but a matter of concern whose solution will certainly benefit the citizens of all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on family business in europe. creation of good conditions for business is one of my key agendas and i hope this report will contribute to this aim. furthermore, there are certain specifics of family business which should be taken into account while creating a new legislation or rules for business in general.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which calls for simplification of legislation for family businesses so that they can develop their activities and cooperation in other member states without unnecessary administrative obstacles. family businesses are an important part of every national economy, as well as the european economy. these small enterprises are the ones that provide a large number of jobs and, moreover, have a high level of responsibility towards their own employees.
in writing. on 8 september 2015, we voted on the report on harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth. the text responds to the commission's previous communication 'innovation in the blue economy: unlocking the potential of our seas and oceans for growth and jobs'. it points out that the original communication does not cover all the areas that make up the blue economy and that the ecosystem approach must also be taken into account. the protection and conservation of natural marine environments is, in my view, a fundamental prerequisite for the conservation, promotion and development of the blue economy. only viable marine ecosystems are a prerequisite for the exploitation of the resources of the seas and oceans. since the itre committee succeeded in preventing the adoption of the worst amendments, such as those concerning public and private sector investment, i decided to support the report by mr ferreira.
in writing. i voted against the proposals for financing the development and promotion of the blue economy (§ 9, 31, 33, 37) and i voted against this report as a whole, which, using the mysterious neologism 'blue economy', is trying to hide the fact that it is another unnecessary and harmful regulation at european level.
in writing. ‒ research and innovation, creation of growth and jobs are one of the most important agendas the eu is dealing with at the moment. but we have to ensure that creation of jobs and growth will be tackled in reasonable way with contribution of public but more importantly private sector. this key principle however was not observed in the report. too little space was given to the private finance and market mechanism while the priority was clearly given to the public sector. given by these facts, i followed the line of the alde group and abstained for the final vote on the ferreira report on blue economy.
in writing. as 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the eu-28 in february 2015, i very much welcomed the report by my czech colleague michaela šojdrová on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. i appreciated the fact that fiscal consolidation in those member states that have been severely affected by the crisis should not be carried out at the expense of jobs filled by young people, given that this high level of youth unemployment is reflected in an increasing level of poverty and social exclusion, especially for young people from disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. i was pleased to hear her mention the importance of social enterprise as a major driver of social cohesion and sustainability, which can support the economy while alleviating poverty, social exclusion and other social problems. i am also pleased that she has called on member states to promote the entrepreneurial skills of young people through legislative measures that aim to improve the quality of traineeships, focus on the quality of learning and appropriate working conditions. first of all, i would like to see the czech republic not participate in the past in non-conception cuts, but if we are to get economically up, we need to promote the creation of jobs that will help citizens to live in dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which calls for more funding for entrepreneurship programmes, entrepreneurship erasmus and calls for eu intervention in education systems (§ 27).
in writing. the report by ms šojdra deals with the promotion of young people's entrepreneurship, with an emphasis on education and training. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of eligible costs for the implementation of the new regulation by adding the following: one of the reasons for this alarming figure is the mismatch between education and training and the labour market. i fully agree that young people need to be given the key competences so that they have a chance to participate in the modern economy and society as a whole. i strongly encourage a sense of initiative and entrepreneurship among young people, as smes are today the backbone of the eu economy and also the most important and main source of job creation. youth unemployment is falling, but unfortunately only very slowly. i am naturally in favour of initiatives to change this trend, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i supported the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training because i share the author's view that practical entrepreneurial skills should be taught at every level of education or in every field of study and that subjects teaching basic knowledge in finance, economics and business should be included in all school curricula in order to achieve the entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurial skills of young people. it is for the council and the commission, within their respective competences and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to provide methodological support and to develop methodological tools for national education systems in relation to education and training related to business, including social entrepreneurship. in order to achieve these objectives, the commission could increase the amount of support granted to young entrepreneurs from the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. i supported the report because a system of education and training for young people in entrepreneurship can help to reduce the serious social problem of youth unemployment, which is on average 20% in eu countries and rising to an alarming 50% in some regions. however, promoting youth entrepreneurship is only one of the measures that can respond to this situation, not the solution to unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as youth unemployment is a serious concern which should be urgently tackled. the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people can boost the economy, encourage innovation and raise the competitiveness of the eu. i find particularly regrettable that in many member states, start-ups are not sufficiently recognises and entrepreneurs struggle only to find little support for their project. the report lays down recommendations at eu and member states levels to develop trainings and education schemes promoting entrepreneurship. ensuring an effective and simplified access to finance for smes and start-ups, combined with an appropriate support for all stage of a project, is in my opinion of utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which promotes entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. the economic crisis has highlighted the problem of youth unemployment, and in particular the fact that young people have great difficulty finding a job after leaving school. in many cases, the reason is a lack of previous practical experience. the concept of entrepreneurship education is therefore important as one of the tools to promote youth employment.
in writing. the own-initiative report entitled 'towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe' had many good points in its text, which i supported, and that is why i voted in favour of this report. for example, i welcomed the suggestion of the possibility of new models for the management of our cultural heritage, so as to allow the use of alternative models for funding and management, such as the involvement of local communities, the participation of civil society and public-private partnerships. personally, i would prefer to involve local communities and civil society to ensure that cultural heritage is not for profit, but for the citizens. in addition, the report stressed that cultural heritage contributes to innovative jobs, products, services and practices and can be a source of creative ideas, support a new economy and have a small impact on the environment, but only if it is managed appropriately. moreover, i fully agree with the need to increase the rate of digitisation, preservation and accessibility of cultural heritage on the internet, in particular european film heritage, as this will help to reach new audiences and improve access to and use of digital cultural heritage. i consider this a reasonable objective which will lead to making cultural heritage accessible to the younger generation and ultimately to the formation of a european identity.
in writing. i voted against this report, which aims to promote european identity and european values, calls for more funding for cultural heritage and for a greater role for the eu in cultural heritage. however, member states are better placed to look after their own cultural heritage than brussels officials.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree that cultural heritage is a long-term asset, whose role is to create value and contribute to the development of knowledge and economic growth by promoting tourism and creating jobs. it is clear that tangible and intangible cultural heritage plays an important role in the creation, protection and promotion of european culture and values and national, regional, local and individual identities. i also share the concern expressed about the state of play of policies for the protection, restoration, conservation and promotion of cultural heritage, which is of great importance to european identity. i also supported increased financial spending in this area. i voted for the motion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the way towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. this is not an attempt to manage the care, use or promotion of cultural heritage from one centre, but an attempt to facilitate the use of cultural heritage which has enormous economic potential. on the contrary, the report rightly states that local authorities need to be more involved in management and exploitation. it also refers to the sustainable use of cultural heritage, which must be properly cared for so that future generations can benefit from it. so it is not possible to make everything dependent on economic considerations. as the care of cultural heritage is carried out by a number of union institutions using a number of different funding methods, simplification of the system and transparency for those using these instruments at national level are required.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report: the valorisation of the european cultural heritage is now at a crossroad, facing on the one side reduced public investment and one the other an enormous potential in terms of modernisation, diversification of the audience and increase of tourism. maintaining its cultural heritage is a state competence, but there is a european dimension supported by eu funding. this report sets out a series of recommendations to improve the promotion of cultural heritage throughout the eu, for instance by setting up a eu portal gathering all information on funding opportunities and examples of good practices. lastly the cultural heritage provides great opportunities for innovation, research and high-skilled jobs creation if we encourage the digitisation of the sector.
in writing. on 8 september 2015, at the plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the report by my colleague from the group of the european people's party and the envi committee, lynn boylan, on the european citizens' initiative 'right2water'. the vote was very exciting this time. it was not clear until the last moment whether our report would be accepted by the full european parliament, as the people's party and the conservative party decided to put forward a completely different proposal. the european citizens' initiative is an important instrument of participatory democracy in the eu. this tool allows one million eu citizens residing in at least one quarter of the member states to call on the commission to propose legislation that they consider necessary to implement the eu treaties. given the way the commission is currently handling these citizens' initiatives, it was imperative that at least the european parliament would express support for eu citizens and take a strong line against the inaction of the commission. despite the nerve-wracking voting process, i can finally say that a good thing has happened. my colleague boylan succeeded and printed the report in almost the original form. in other words, qualifying the right to clean drinking water as one of the fundamental human rights and strongly rejecting any attempt to privatize free access to drinking water. i'm very glad i could support such a text.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that, thanks to my vote and in particular to the key contribution of the european social democrats, this ambitious report has been adopted. of particular significance is the fact that it is a response to the first ever european citizens' initiative, known as right2water, which was supported by almost 2 million people from all eu countries. i fully support the main message of the citizens' initiative, which despite opposition pressure managed to get through to the final resolution, namely that water is a public good, not a commodity, and that people have the right to water and essential hygiene. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to address the situation of some 1 million people and 2% of the eu population who lack access to drinking water or basic sanitation. i believe that water and sanitation should be outside the rules of the market and should not be part of international trade agreements, including those currently in progress.
in writing. ‒ the first successful european citizens' initiative, signed by almost two million european citizens, concerns the right to water. it is a clear signal that citizens consider access to water to be a very serious issue and an area that cannot be subject to a purely commercial view. more than a million citizens in the european union today lack access to clean drinking water and sanitation, and the situation outside the eu is even more alarming. the commission should pay particular attention to the requirements of this citizens' initiative, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this report. the european citizens’ initiative right2water asks that all eu inhabitants enjoy the right to water and sanitation and that the eu should increase its effort to guarantee universal access to both. i support the call to include the right to water and sanitation in the charter of fundamental rights and ensure a stricter enforcement of existing eu rules on water management and distribution. i am also in favour of the eib investing more in the development of water infrastructures. however, the report as drafted also contained provisions i am not in favour of, especially the ban of all private initiatives in water management: i don't think such initiatives go against the right to water, on the contrary they would contribute to encouraging investment and innovation in this sector which in the end would be beneficial for all citizens.
mr president, we hear from germany on the one hand how generously it wants to take in all the refugees coming to europe and how these refugees can be a benefit to the german economy. on the other hand, we hear from germany that they want to distribute refugees to countries where the public does not want them and where the refugees do not want to live. to demand the distribution of refugees through mandatory quotas ignores the fact that all these refugees are heading to germany for a higher standard of living, higher social benefits, ignores the fact that in the czech republic and in other countries nobody wants these mandatory quotas. and i guarantee you that if you override the czech republic in the quotas, it will only cause the vast majority of the public in the czech republic not to want to stay in such a european union.
mr president, in general terms, i consider this proposal to be a necessary response to the current migration crisis. i myself have visited several refugee camps in southern europe, italy, malta and other countries during the summer, and the situation is very serious. that is why i am in favour of looking for concrete solutions, and moving from general proclamations to concrete actions. the european union must not, however, put pressure on member states to take in the number of refugees proposed. the whole mechanism is built on volunteerism. as it turns out, this is how this mechanism is permeable. an example is the czech republic, which has signed up to take in a similar number of refugees as those set by the mechanism. he's certainly not shielding himself from any responsibility. and if anyone here is criticizing the czech republic, they should not only read the media, but they should actually check the facts about what the prime minister said or did not say, or look at the website of the government office, where all the documents are. i think the criticism is wrong. you really have to differentiate between what's being said and what's being said. and in closing, i would like to say that we need to separate populism and we need to separate pragmatism. not everyone who acts populist acts pragmatically.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. you said that city politics shouldn't be the subject of our discussion. i take it, then, that you do not regard this policy as a union policy. but are you aware that, for example, there are major conferences on urban policy next year under the auspices of the united nations, that even organizations such as the united nations are dealing with urban policy?
madam president, there was of course a lot of good in mr kukana's report. but i'm afraid i can't support it. none of us are against retirement, and certainly not against intergenerational solidarity. but what bothers me is that it was said in the interim that your colleague would be happy with an increased retirement, and i have a problem with that. the increase in average age and the ageing of the population cannot be used as an argument for raising the retirement age. citizens have spent at least four decades in the workforce before they retire and deserve to be rewarded for their work, the value they create and the effort they put into it. we must also not forget that they have contributed their entire lives to the welfare system. personally, i think we should focus more on how to ensure that citizens of retirement age live to see retirement, that is, on adequate health care and good social conditions, and that they have decent resting conditions. that means a pension, housing, and care. we should also consider whether for some professions, such as miners, a europe-wide limit on early retirement could be considered.
mr president, commissioner, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. as the shadow rapporteur of the original 2011 white paper on transport, i agree with the rapporteur that to create a single transport area that uses efficient and sustainable resources, it is first necessary to connect transport networks in all regions of the european union and to integrate different modes of transport. the construction of trans-european transport networks needs to address the still prevailing infrastructure differences between different regions, between the old and the new member states, and to fundamentally improve cross-border connections. i am very pleased that the report deals with road safety issues, where it proposes the adoption of a target to reduce the number of seriously injured road users. it also mentions the issues of improving the availability and accessibility of public transport, strengthening passenger rights and dealing with the social conditions of transport workers. for these reasons, i support the report and thank once again all those who contributed to it.
mr president, mr rapporteur, thank you for your report. as coordinator of the envi committee, i have strongly appreciated that energy efficiency improvements should be one of the main priorities of european transport policy. there is an urgent need to make more efficient use of resources across the transport system in order to ensure more efficient use of existing capacity. like the rapporteur, i am therefore missing the promotion and development of public transport, which also promises to reduce the environmental burden of emissions, among the ten objectives of the white paper. while infrastructure to facilitate safe door-to-door mobility for public transport users, including senior citizens and cyclists, would require appropriate investment, i believe that the benefits of such investment are significant and have a positive impact on employment in the member states. i therefore support the priority approval of infrastructure projects financed by eu funds, which complete the rail network forming part of the ten-t core network, and of projects approved under the connecting europe facility, and i call for the most effective involvement of the countries of central europe in this network.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, from doctors to lawyers to architects, liberal professions are a great part of our lives. we need to treat them all with respect, and equally. this is why article 59 of the revised directive is so important. by the start of next year, member states will have to justify why some professions have national requirements that any normal person would say are simply not needed or are designed to be discriminatory against those not born or educated in that member state. the commission must be extremely strict when deciding what is an acceptable reason and call out those member states that are not honouring the spirit and principles of the law. mr president, as long as czech engineers or accountants are faced with a bureaucratic wall when they simply want to move to germany, there is more to be done. not only are these professionals losing out, so too are all germans and all eu citizens who have missed a chance for better service and more choice in their daily lives. over—regulation of these professions is, in essence, denying these workers access to the fundamental freedoms of movement and establishment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the requests that the name of the delegation be changed from delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to delegation for relations with palestine.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of the recommendation, i approved the conclusion of the protocol setting fishing opportunities and the financial compensation provided for in the partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea—bissau. the measures adopted should also help to prevent illegal and unregulated fishing in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and approved the conclusion of the protocol setting fishing opportunities and the financial compensation provided for in the partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. the measures adopted should also help to prevent illegal and unregulated fishing in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of the recommendation i gave my support to the new eu-cape verde fisheries partnership agreement. by this vote i call on the commission to seek guarantees that fishery in this area is exploited in a sustainable and responsible way.
in writing. ‒ i support the new eu-cape verde fisheries partnership agreement and voted in favour of this report. by this vote i also called on the commission to seek guarantees that fishery in this area is exploited in a sustainable and responsible way.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and approved the conclusion of the new partnership agreement between the eu and madagascar. the agreement provides for total compensation of eur 6.1 million from the european union to the republic of madagascar over the four years that the partnership agreement will run.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement is one of the rare jewels in the doha developing round crown that the wto members have managed to deliver. it will be a vital tool towards modernising customs procedures, cutting red tape and capacity building, especially in the developing world. agreed all the way back in december 2013, now is the time for the eu to ratify it. investment in trade is fundamental to boosting the growth and development of a country. by supporting trade, the eu has helped to lift millions of people out of poverty in the last decade and this should remain key to our development work. this agreement will continue to easier and cheaper for developing countries to take part in the global economy. this is why, i was pleased to vote in favour of both the zalba reports today.
‒ the positive is that the agreement removes bureaucratic obstacles, but the negative is that it calls for financial assistance. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of this protocol. indeed a swift implementation of the tfa is essential for developing countries. the agreement will make it easier and cheaper for developing countries to trade, with the biggest gains realised in south-south trade, thereby facilitating their integration into regional and global value chains. returns on a relatively modest up-front investment will be considerable in terms of growth, jobs and development the eu is committed to cover a significant share of the funding needs and technical assistance for counties most in need to implement the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of this protocol. indeed a swift implementation of the tfa is essential for developing countries. the agreement will make it easier and cheaper for developing countries to trade, with the biggest gains realised in south-south trade, thereby facilitating their integration into regional and global value chains. returns on a relatively modest up-front investment will be considerable in terms of growth, jobs and development the eu is committed to cover a significant share of the funding needs and technical assistance for counties most in need to implement the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i see no reason to prevent states from concluding this agreement if that is their will.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways was adopted by a diplomatic conference organised jointly by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe, and entered into force on 1 april 2005. it contributes to the internal market in the field of transport by harmonising contracts and inland navigation standards across europe.
madam president, i would like to explain why i did not vote for the report by mrs keller. not that i'm against solidarity. on the contrary, i did. it is necessary, necessary. it's an expression of our humanity. i try to help refugees with my own resources, especially christian families who come to the czech republic and are cared for. they're fleeing the persecution of the islamic state. and it's consistent with our values to help these people. i did not vote for the report, however, because it goes beyond the joint agreement of the member states on a one-off measure in the form of the relocation of 40 000 refugees, which was reached at the council meeting in june this year. i consider it essential that it is the representatives of the member states who are responsible for security who agree to accept refugees in their countries. the european parliament's role is certainly not to decide for them.
madam president, i would like to be brief. i would like to say that i supported mrs keller's report, even though i did not support the mandatory quotas. i'll explain why. however, i believe that, as james says in the bible, 'faith without works is dead', i do not understand how we can speak of european solidarity if someone does not support this message. i am convinced that solidarity means that i really support aid to italy and greece. we may have different views on the question of mandatory quotas, and i myself had a different opinion on this issue. i think that the compulsory quotas are primarily a matter of agreement between the member states. but if someone did not support this report, i think he cannot join the others in claiming to support european solidarity, because his faith in european solidarity is dead.
in writing. ‒ every member state has a moral duty to help the refugees arriving from conflict areas like syria or other war zones. we should help those who ask for our help. but i cannot support the mandatory introduction of quotas. if a refugee does not want to stay in one member state, we should not attempt to force them to. such a system would not work without the suspension of the schengen agreement and the freedom of movement that is fundamental to europe today. it is normal that a refugee will continue to move towards their preferred objective, where they might already have family or work, and no quota will stop this desire. each member states must be able to decide itself how many refugees to accept in its territory and accept those who truly desire their help. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as i share the views of the czech government on migration, i could not support the report on the draft council decision establishing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. it was again a question of quotas for the reception of refugees, with which i cannot agree. although i sympathize with the suffering of syrian refugees in particular, i consider forced solidarity to be a misunderstanding of the very meaning of solidarity, which must be voluntary. moreover, the absolute minimum of current refugees want to live in the czech republic, and i cannot imagine how we would keep them in our country by force in the 21st century. in addition, the czech republic has already given a home to refugees from many eastern countries, especially those fleeing civil war-torn ukraine. now, however, it seems that all the eu institutions have chosen to ignore this. the eu must realise that its only hope is to end the conflicts that have been the catalyst for today's events as quickly as possible. not all refugees want to stay in europe. they want to go home, but they're gonna risk their lives tonight. the solution is not quotas or the hate speech of ambitious political newcomers or aging matadors. the solution to the whole problem lies where the problem began, in north africa and the middle east.
in writing. i voted against it. i don't agree with mandatory quotas for the distribution of immigrants. i do not agree with the provision that 'member states [...] should agree on binding quotas' for the distribution of immigrants. i do not agree with the pressure for 'common european standards' for the reception of asylum seekers.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's position on the temporary international protection measures for the benefit of italy and greece. i did so despite the fact that some of the principles on which the proposed part of the solution to the immigration crisis is based are not, in my opinion, the most appropriate. i voted in favour because there is no other solution on the table and to oppose the commission's proposal in the absence of another option is to escalate the current crisis. a crisis that is not about an abstract problem, but about tens of thousands of specific people. i don't think the mandatory quota system is the best, although unlike many politicians i think it can be set up to work. because even refugees have to follow the rules. i would welcome an agreement among member countries on how to deal with the problem fairly and together. unfortunately, the past months have shown that the governments of the member states are not capable of such an agreement. the european parliament has therefore supported the opinion of the ep, as have 498 of my colleagues, because in a situation where 100 states do not agree to take on voluntary joint responsibility, the mandatory mechanism is the only solution that is really on the table, and in this sense also the only possible one.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the rejection of the proposed administrative mechanism, to be followed by a permanent system of redistribution of refugees among eu member states, should not be interpreted as a rejection of interpersonal solidarity and assistance to people in need. i believe that all member states and their citizens are ready for it. at the same time, and first and foremost, i call for the eu to make the maximum international diplomatic effort to end the war in syria and other conflicts in the eu's neighbourhood, which have already killed hundreds of thousands of people and are driving people from their homes, including to eu countries.
in writing. ‒ together with almost 500 democratically elected representatives of european voters, i voted in favour of the proposed recommendation to the council on the temporary relocation of refugees from italy and greece. i've waited a long time for our government to accept refugees voluntarily. she didn't do it, guided by the vision of the votes in the election. to show such a blatant and showy reluctance to show any sign of solidarity within the eu at a time of such a complex geopolitical situation, when europe must stand together, is a great gamble. the government has clearly prioritized electoral preferences over responsibility and also over simple humanity to the refugees. because it's refugees, people fleeing war, that we're talking about, not economic migrants. just to clarify, the ep does not co-decide in this case, but merely gives the council its opinion, which is not binding on the council, i.e. the member states.
in writing. i did not support the report on temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, to confirm my previous opposition to the solution of the migration crisis through quotas. the migration crisis is a complex problem that has no simple solution. however, this solution or solutions to the individual but interrelated problems must be sought together at union level and must be actively involved in the discussion. in particular, our task remains to contribute to the future debate on the shape of eu asylum and migration policy. a system must be found to minimise the emergence of crisis situations and to resolve any crisis arising from causes beyond the eu or member states' competence quickly, efficiently and in compliance with humanitarian commitments that cannot be waived.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of this report as it only proposes short-term measures rather than providing a comprehensive approach to this complex problem. i could not particularly support the commission’s proposal to redistribute asylum seeker according to the mandatory quotas to the member states, which would force the asylum seekers to stay involuntarily in given countries.
mr president, i would like to say that i was pleased to support this report, which also discussed whether the eu institutions have the power or the competence to speak about urban mobility, about the urban agenda. i think that the debate is very late, or that it is really not appropriate to debate whether the urban agenda is within the scope of the european union. i'm sure you do. there is no doubt that the mobility trends of europe's population are converging in cities. that cities will be the home of the majority of the continent's population, and if the european union were to give up on the urban agenda, on urban mobility, it would undoubtedly give up on one of the main issues that is going to define the next period. i therefore hope that even colleagues who, in my view, inexplicably did not support this report will change their decision-making and thinking on this matter in the future, because the urban agenda, urban mobility, is a matter of eu policy and i was honoured to support this report.
‒ the european union is not about the future of cities. it will develop according to natural development and also to the demands of the inhabitants. urban development should therefore be left to the lowest level of decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report on the current and future challenges facing urban policy. as the current trend is for more people to live in cities, it is important to address today the questions of what cities people want to live in should look like in the future. important topics include sustainable transport, housing policy and energy networks. i agree with the argument that the eu's urban agenda should focus on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in particular on the themes of 'social inclusion, demographic change and sustainability'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies. it calls for the urban specificity to be taken into better account in all european policies. it advocates the inclusion of the urban dimension in all european policies by taking into account ‘the urban acquis’ and in each case carrying out impact studies on small, medium and large-sized cities.
mr president, the vice—president has said today that this is a region of multiple challenges, and that is a central part of the puzzle. i could not agree more. madam vice-president, there is something more important that you have said recently: the goal is two states for two peoples, and i think that exactly this wording is quite vital. i do not want to repeat what will be in the resolution – i believe that this is a resolution of support and peace – but what should the eu focus on? the eu should focus on reconciliation between the palestinians: that is one goal. second, rapprochement with israel. the third goal is clearly gaza: improving conditions there. we should aim at getting the two parties at the negotiating table without any conditions. having said that, i think our goal should be for the palestinians to administrate gaza and, obviously, for the israelis to cease any other acts regarding the settlements. in such a case, i think that we could agree: we could become a global player, but as a global player we could contribute to a resolution of the crisis. as naive as it may be seen today, i believe that it is achievable.
mr president, i think that the european union on that point should not be perceived as biased. unfortunately, some steps put us into a biased position, such as the labelling of products or today’s vote on the name change of the delegation. if we agree with the ‘two states, two peoples’ principle, we should actively engage in bringing both sides to the negotiating table with no preconditions, because they are very risky and we should send some signals to the palestinian side. we should condemn the recent rockets fired by hamas or other military groups. we should say to the palestinian side that they are a unified voice. it is a vital condition for reaching a solution. we should tell them that they must take greater responsibility and assume their governmental functions in the gaza strip, including security and civil administration, and we should urge them to hold democratic general elections. we should also take broader regional security challenges into account. otherwise, we will get nowhere.
mr. chairman, it's been many years since i read shimon peres' book the new near east, and it talks about how the merger of israeli technology and capital with arab resources could lead to this region becoming one of the most dynamic in the world. instead, $50 billion or more is spent each year on weapons, water is lost, and one of the worst environmental disasters in the world is being created. i think it's very important that the peace process continues, because it would help to stop the refugee crisis and help to improve the situation of all the nations in the region. jean-paul sartre, who is celebrating his second anniversary this year, once said that a path to agreement would be possible because the left would certainly agree. but where in the muslim world can you find a functioning, action-oriented and hopeful left? perhaps this is the task of european diplomacy, as well as the task of bringing together the resources of the two adversaries. i think there's still a chance.
madam president, i think there is no doubt that the role of the european union in the middle east peace process is to be that of a neutral and fair mediator. the goal of this process is to have two states. and i'm glad that the israeli prime minister recently re-engaged with this solution. as far as the palestinian authority is concerned, it is necessary to insist that the future palestinian state also unconditionally recognize the existence of the state of israel. this future palestinian state must also be governed by an administration that is truly capable of administering its entire territory, including its borders. an administration that will be able to ensure security and development in its territory. the two-state solution can only be achieved through negotiation. terrorism is not one of those tools. the european union must therefore also ensure that its financial support does not end with the terrorists. that would be more than counterproductive. finally, we must also recognize that israel is an important and natural partner in the current situation in the middle east precisely because it is a democracy.
madam speaker, we all know how politicians can get carried away by the excitement of the olympics. we do things we wouldn't normally do. we are full of energy, ideas and promise. and that's exactly what happened to belarusian president lukashenko a few weeks before the presidential election on october 11. he suddenly released most political prisoners, including prominent ones. we consider his gesture to be a step in the right direction, but at the same time we have no doubt that it is a pre-election tactic to convince the international community of the gradual transition to democracy. the state continues to intimidate human rights defenders. the state is targeting journalists working for foreign media without accreditation. the release of political prisoners is not fully rehabilitative and their release is not always unconditional. our resolution calls for the presidential elections to be held in accordance with international standards, including full access to state media for opposition presidential candidates.
madam president, i think we have a well-balanced resolution on the table. on the one hand, we should also positively reflect on the fact that the government of belarus released six political prisoners this august. indeed, it is good news that the former presidential candidate statkevich and others have been set free. however, i am afraid that it has more to do with the upcoming october elections than with any substantial changes in the government’s approach to human rights and political freedom. so far there have been only limited modifications of legal codes, which are used by the regime to oppress media freedom as well as the activities of civil society and political opposition. we have to express more support for ngos which are calling for concrete action and legislative changes on the side of the belarusian government. at the same time, and in closer cooperation especially, any financial assistance should be granted only after serious political efforts are made.
madam chairman, allow me to bring you an update on the situation in belarus. on monday, the opposition candidate in the last presidential election, mr. aleś mihaljevič, was arrested in belarus. he spent four years abroad, the czech republic granted him asylum. he was back for a more liberal approach when the other candidates were fired. mr. mihaljevich was released after a few hours, but his trial is still ongoing. the news we are receiving at this time is a disturbing development in the run-up to the next election. opposition parties can participate in controlling the vote count in less than half a percent of the districts. we also find the media coverage of the election disturbing. for example, the list of all presidential candidates in the media was published only 12 times, and on 118 websites there was no information about groups collecting signatures for presidential candidates other than alexander lukashenko. and the broadcast, which featured the activities of president lukashenko, takes up an average of seventy-five percent of the airtime. given this information, there is reason to fear that the elections will be held as they have been in the past. and as a citizen of a country which, 25 years ago, was still experiencing similar fears, lack of freedom, i am pleading for the european union to be very active in transforming belarus into a democratic country.
madam president, i would like to comment on this debate because belarus is a very close country to us, a neighbour of the eu. in october this year, belarus will hold presidential elections again. and the president, with his dictatorial tendencies, probably didn't surprise anyone when he announced that he would run for office again. the belarusian president would have been in office for almost a quarter of a century. but they're not gonna catch up with fidel castro. it would be ridiculous if behind all this was nothing but repression and restrictions on political opponents, journalists and civil society. the very preparation for the presidential election raises concerns about undemocratic practices and indicates that the elections will be manipulated again. pressure is mounting on the candidates in the election and the people who collect signatures for their candidacy. as my predecessor has already mentioned, a few days ago former presidential candidate aleš mihaljevič was arrested, having been granted asylum in my country, the czech republic, in 2011. however, there are also positive signs that give us hope. belarus is a country that is slowly opening up to europe, influenced by the ukrainian crisis and other factors. we have also seen some positive developments in education, for example. belarus recently joined the bologna process. this will help universities and especially students and, consequently, the development of society as a whole. i am proud to come from a country which, thanks to president havel among other things, has always been very committed to helping belarus. i believe that this country will also gradually become a member of the european union family. that is why we need to support the resolution we are about to pass.
mr. chairman, let me remind you that iran is a theocratic dictatorship that severely represses opposition at home and in exile. that it's the number one execution per capita in the world, that to consider iran an ally in the fight against the islamic state is naive, because for them, the islamic state is just a competitor in their quest for regional hegemony. let me remind you that iran is backing assad in syria, backing hezbollah in lebanon, overthrowing iraq. saudi arabia, turkey, and egypt have all embraced the treaty with concern. of course, israel is the main one. and if this deal allows iran to continue its nuclear program, it will turn the region into a weapon-making cycle that we haven't seen here since the end of the cold war. i'm afraid we've opened the door to that. i'm not optimistic about this deal at all, and i have to say that you yourself have contributed to it by your rash visit to iran and the condescension you've shown towards the regime there. i consider it a mistake and i'm reprimanding you, mrs. mogherini, from this very spot.
mr. chairman, allow me to state a few facts. during the tenure of the so-called moderate iranian prime minister rouhani, more than two thousand people were hanged. according to amnesty international, 700 people were executed in the first half of this year alone. and the number is expected to exceed 1,000 by the end of the year. it's the highest number of executions per capita in the world. the legal age for girls to marry is 13, but girls as young as nine can be married with the permission of the court. and so on and so forth. commissioner, i ask you from this place, as the representative of europe, not to forget human rights in the making of the iranian nuclear deal. dealing with the threat of iran's nuclear program and the regime's influence in the region is not an easy choice. but i know with absolute certainty that the issue of human rights, the brutal increase in executions and the suppression of religious freedom must not be taboo for the european union in talks with its iranian counterpart.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i must say at the outset that the interest in my report has exceeded expectations. whether it's the fruitful collaboration with colleagues, for which i thank them so much, or the exchanges of ideas, or the hard-fought battles for every word with other colleagues. i'm so glad my report didn't fall through. it is clear that the issue of employment and the future of work in europe is of concern to all of us. europe is facing many serious challenges today. we all know where our future efforts will have to go. the key issue to which we must also give due attention is the creation of new jobs, the reduction of unemployment and the building of a competitive labour market reflecting the real needs of the present. young europeans in particular are currently suffering from unemployment, which is the result of a certain stagnation or reluctance on the part of some countries to embark on long-term labour market reforms or modernisation of labour law, many of whose provisions date back to our grandparents. we must work together to respond much more flexibly to the needs of the 21st century. the alarming youth unemployment figures in southern europe are a signal that the youngest generation is losing the traditional transition from school to work, losing their career dreams and with them their trust in the system. we 're running out of time . let's stop this from happening, and together, we can change it. but progress is impossible without change. what we need is a competitive job market. a labour market that will be modernised and that will constantly change and develop in line with the times in which we live, and not stagnate in history. a labour market which will seek to match the skills of jobseekers with the supply of vacancies, i.e. a market which will monitor and evaluate the real needs of employers and adapt the vocational training supply accordingly. therefore, lifelong learning is of utmost importance, enabling people of all ages to keep pace with the challenges of their careers. let us not be afraid to look for examples of good practice and let them inspire us. as for the vote on my report, we can argue on every point. some people do not like the idea that young people should be responsible for their lives and should prepare actively and responsibly for inclusion in the work process. some have reservations about the economic mobility of workers within eu countries. others may disagree with the proposed changes and procedures to stabilise and develop the situation in europe's labour markets. but this is no time to argue over words and numbers. now we have to decide: are we capable of accepting reality? look at the situation without political bias? do we really want to build a competitive labour market together? if we continue on the same path and do the same things in the same way, change will never come. this is no longer about whether we want to go more left or more right. we all have to go forward now. whatever the outcome of tomorrow's vote, i will not relent in my initiative. i will also look at how to link the education system to the needs of the labour market and how to motivate young europeans to live an active life. after all, we spend a third of our lives in the workplace and this experience is irreplaceable for any human being. we cannot think that all we need is to protect our citizens and their labour rights. we would be acting like an overly caring mother who lovingly cares for her children but fails to teach them the right skills for life. we must have the ambition to raise self-confident citizens, modern europeans, who are well prepared for life and who are not afraid to take responsibility for themselves and for others. we must want to educate europeans who have a clear vision of their future and are able to fight for it. my report is, i believe, the first step in the right direction on this road.
mr president, i would like to support the reports by our colleagues martina dlabajová and verónica lope fontagné. i am convinced they are important and i am glad that our group, the epp group, is ready to support them. i am in complete agreement with the main points of the reports. skills mismatch is a major problem in terms of a competitive workforce and a flexible labour market in europe. if europe wants to fight unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and if it wants to continue to play a crucial role in the world economy, it needs to adopt policies which will focus on good skills and competencies. i agree that we should work on increasing the mobility of workers and on cooperation between schools and the productive sector, providing practical experience to students. i am delighted that yesterday parliament approved my report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. parliament called for entrepreneurship skills to be included in school curricula, and this is precisely the right step for increasing the competitiveness of young graduates in the labour market. entrepreneurship skills, such as a sense of initiative, risk taking, resilience, and financial and ict literacy, are quite universal and can be used both in entrepreneurship activity and by employers. i am happy to see that the report by my colleague ms dlabajová mentions the importance of fostering entrepreneurial spirit among european youth, and i also see great potential in providing more opportunities for women, who form the majority of university graduates.
rapporteur. mr president, thank you all for your thoughtful comments, questions and opinions. let me make a few final remarks and also ask some questions. for me, mobility doesn't mean forcing young people to move, as has been said here. and motivation and being active for me doesn't mean blaming young people in any way. i would like to live in a europe where my children know that learning is not torture and that time spent studying and broadening their horizons is worthwhile. there's no shame in doing crafts and manual labor if you enjoy it. that children can study at home and abroad. and that when they return home, they will find a job that matches their abilities and imagination. what kind of education do you want for your children? i would like to live in a europe where my children can find inspiration and understanding in the people they are surrounded by. whatever their career plans are, they should not be afraid to take risks to achieve them and always follow their dreams. what kind of friends, teachers, bosses, colleagues do you want for your children? i would like my children to learn to take responsibility for their lives and not let anyone else decide it, not parents, not the state, not the authorities. that they never passively wait for the system to take care of them and that they never resign themselves to their desires and their wishes and their professional dreams. to let them know that honest work can make a decent living and that change is an integral part of life. what kind of life do you want for your children? you can answer those questions by voting on my report. of course you can answer me, but you can answer yourself.
madam president, i certainly agree that the appalling treatment of women, as my colleague and colleagues have shown here, must be condemned. whether it's trafficking in women, whether it's prostitution, modern slavery, cyber-abuse, of course, smuggling networks and so on. on the one hand, some of my colleagues are also talking about the need for european solidarity in the treatment of refugees, and i was surprised to see their vote on mrs keller's report this morning. i was surprised they didn't just support her. yes, even some of my colleagues in my group who speak of the need for european solidarity did not support it. i consider it a great display of hypocrisy. i don't understand how someone can call for european solidarity and then, even as a woman, not support what i think is necessary, which is to help the countries affected by this wave of refugees. i really find that reprehensible.
mr president, in the context of the cases we are discussing today, we are only constantly confirming the true nature of the current russian regime. i therefore thank the high representative, mrs mogherini, for her clear statement on the eston kohver case. it is incredible that in 2015 we are witnessing the abduction of an eu citizen from eu territory and his sentencing to 15 years by a council of europe and osce member state in a judicial process that does not meet the basic requirements of a fair trial. unfortunately, this is a reality confirmed by other cases of nadia savchenko, oleg sentsov, alexander kolchenko and many others. so i'm glad that the sanctions against russia have been extended, although i'm sorry that they affect ordinary russian citizens but also for their human rights we are fighting here.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i wonder which of us would accept a situation in which his or her countrymen were being abducted from their own territory. these are, essentially, gangster methods. this has nothing to do with a society which respects human rights. this requires not only condemnation and strong words, but concrete action. that is why i propose, dear colleagues, that we approve today an amendment which is in line with my previous amendment and the amendment that has been supported by many, in which we will call for concrete steps and concrete action against those people who are responsible. we cannot just have a resolution with strong political language. we really need to show that there will be repercussions if something like this happens again. it does not take that much, but we need to raise a few hands today to send a clear message and really counter these activities, which are completely unacceptable.
mr. chairman, russian commandos have abducted an estonian man named kohver from the estonian border area. kohver is an estonian citizen. and not only that, ladies and gentlemen, a russian commando has kidnapped a citizen of the european union, our fellow citizen, from the territory of the european union. and not only that, my colleagues, from the territory of a nato member country an agent of the secret service of a nato member country was kidnapped by russian commandos and taken to russia. eston kohver was convicted of espionage earlier this year and sentenced to 15 years in prison by a russian court in pskov. estonian media speculate that the abduction was orchestrated by the russian federal security service in order to exchange kohver for alexei dresser, a former estonian intelligence officer who worked for the fsb. dresser was sentenced to 16 years in estonia for treason. it looks like a clash between two secret services. in fact, we are witnessing another battle of hybrid warfare being waged by the russian federation against estonia and the entire european union. they do not shy away from using bandit methods, such as kidnapping and lying.
mr president, i too want to condemn, of course, a regime which is undoubtedly undemocratic, corrupt and angolan. however, i would like to take the argument i'm going to make here a little bit further. these debates, which are urgent debates on human rights violations, should also, i think, lead to the design of a mechanism so that the european union can implement decisions, judgments of international tribunals, if their decisions are recognised by the states concerned. in other words, to enable the european union to enforce human rights more effectively and efficiently where they are violated, if an international authority has already concluded that there is indeed a violation. it's also about mr. kohver's previous case. simply put, if there are international judgments of the strasbourg tribunal, the european commission, the european union and the eu institutions could propose solutions for their enforcement. i think we should also encourage the member states to do so.
mr president, i too would like to condemn this particular case, of course, but also the other cases which have been discussed here. in my view, it is not possible to say in this case that human rights have a different quality, a different level, when they concern a different specific country. i will support the final draft resolution, but i would also like to call on the european union and its institutions to consider the extent to which binding decisions of international courts can be enforced by the european union and its institutions on the territory of the european union if the state concerned has accepted them. this is particularly the case at the council of europe in strasbourg, where the strasbourg court of human rights is located. the italian colleague asked how azerbaijan would react to this draft resolution. of course, this motion for a resolution does not have to force them to do anything. but if the european union finds a mechanism for the enforcement of human rights, then i think it will be appropriate and good for the union as a whole.
mr president, i was happy to support this sixth report on cohesion policy because i think it responds very well to the very important issues in regional policy. cohesion policy should focus on supporting weak regions, especially those economically and otherwise disadvantaged, which lag behind in economic indicators, and also on regions that need our support. i think that's necessary. it should focus on supporting core areas with significant population concentrations, but also on structurally disadvantaged regions. for the future, i think it is very important that regional policy and its cohesion component continue to focus on promoting sustainable growth, because this is the most important chapter in regional development for the european union, because only sustainable growth can be the basis of our future.
‒ economic growth cannot be boosted by subsidies and regulation of the economy. the only solution that works is the other way around. low taxes, cutting red tape, and eliminating unfair subsidies by one at the expense of the other.
in writing. ‒ i am proud that the parliament will continue with the cohesion policy to continue to grow the european economy. in the past, the cohesion policy has been the main tool used to help reduce economic, social and territorial inequalities across the european regions. i am satisfied that it has been able to react quickly with flexible measures to help tackle the investment gap between certain regions. however, i am warry about the significant delays in some of the programming periods, and am worried that theses postponements may hinder our economic growth. it is important that we continue to increase the efficiency and effectiveness so that our success may continue. moving forward, we need to focus on smes, as the account for a vast majority of the economy in the union, and also to look to education so that we can help create a strong, well-educated labour force so that our economy will remain strong.
in writing. cohesion policy has a positive impact on bridging the gap between member states, more and less economically efficient regions, increasing their competitiveness and creating jobs. at the same time, it has reduced its impact in times of crisis. in view of the initial delay in the approval of the operational programmes under the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, it is necessary to reflect on cohesion policy as soon as possible after the end of this period. it is also necessary to learn from the mistakes of the previous period, as maladministration and the problem of late payments lead to a disproportionate burden on the budgets of both beneficiaries and member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on investments promoting job creation and growth within the context of cohesion policy. the reports proposes different measures such as a thoroughgoing examination of the objectives and co-financing rates for the fund, enhanced action in developmentally disadvantaged regions and administrative simplification.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is important to increase eu cohesion and investing in employment is one of the main instruments. if we do not promote employment for young people, especially in less developed regions, people will leave these regions and the result will be depopulated regions, in which we will have to invest far more money in a few years. in my view, therefore, it is essential that the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund and the youth employment initiative should be directed to this problem.
mr president, i also supported mr kukana's report because i believe that solidarity between generations is one of the most fundamental ways of promoting the good development of society and of being aware of the challenges facing european society. ageing is a fact, demographic change is simply a reality as it is, and in my view, if many of us are committed to supporting young families, we must also be committed to supporting old families in this context. and i'm going along with it. in other words, to keep families together as long as possible. so that we can develop these kinds of residential facilities where you don't have to put your parent, grandparent, into a full-time care facility, but you can just put them there for a short period of time and then you can always pick them up. i think these are examples of good practice and good solidarity. i'm in on it.
‒ europe's population is ageing significantly and must therefore respond to the demographic changes that this trend brings. it's not enough to just extend life, it's essential to improve the quality of life of the elderly. i was a shadow reporter on this issue last term. i believe that the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations has brought this important social issue to the fore. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mr kukan, for the evaluation report which i voted for. however, initiatives to develop intergenerational dialogue and active ageing should not end with the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which follows the ini report adopted in 2010 on the same topic as well as the 2012 resolution on swiss quotas on the number of residence permits granted to nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. the eea agreement is considered as an effective instrument to extend the single market to third countries. however, we can be concerned about increasing eu rules transposition deficit, which could jeopardize the functioning of the internal market. the report therefore calls third countries to remedy this situation. it also deplores the unilateral measures (administrative fees or obligatory bank guarantees) which restrict the provision of services in switzerland.
in writing. the eu's transport policy faces major challenges in the form of a shift towards more sustainable and energy-efficient modes of transport, the construction of modern infrastructure and the completion of the trans-european transport network. in this context, the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport rightly points to the need to develop the market for electric vehicles and alternative fuels (electricity, hydrogen, natural gas cng and lng, sustainable biofuels, in particular biofuels produced from waste and processing residues, including molasses-based ethanol) and to accelerate the deployment of the necessary infrastructure for vehicle charging and refuelling. more efforts are needed to promote the development of sustainable electromobility across the union. on the other hand, i am convinced that the report does not call on the commission to adopt, if necessary, support measures to prevent the emergence of differences between the social conditions of road transport in the various member states in order to prevent so-called social dumping. social dumping is a concept that is being abused to discriminate against czech road hauliers, and i am very strongly against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, which assesses the current strategy of european transport policy. the strategy aims to create an area that ensures the free movement of services and the opening of transport markets, the so-called single european transport market. the strategy also aims to achieve a competitive and resource-efficient transport system and the related efforts to reduce emissions. the report also focuses on measures to improve road safety, in particular by reducing the number of deaths on european roads. this report emphasises the need to complete safe and quality infrastructure in all modes of transport within the ten-t network, including the removal of cross-border barriers. structural changes in transport can improve quality of life and the environment, while preserving people's freedom of movement and the competitiveness of eu industry.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. in 2011, the white paper adopted 40 concrete initiatives intended to build a competitive transport system in the eu. this review report renews the parliament support to the objectives and sets out proposals to increase the effort to reach the objectives. it contains also an overview of the challenges faced by all modes of transport and calls for better interoperability. in particular, i am calling for a stronger harmonisation of the european transport area to promote a fair competition between all modes of transport, therefore achieving the single european sky (which requires solving the gibraltar issue) and the 4th railway package. true competition between all modes of transport is necessary and will encourage investment and innovation as much which will improve the overall quality of transport infrastructures across the eu. improved transport networks is key to move towards a sustainable transport area.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i do not agree that european commission officials should determine the direction of the automotive industry. i also do not like the attempt to unify national road charging systems. i consider that encouraging member states to reinvest these funds in infrastructure is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, i would like to say that i have supported mrs vozemberg's report because i consider it to be well written and i fully agree with the content of the report. we talk about gender equality all the time, but experience shows that it is far from being achieved. many stereotypes, for example, lead to a low representation of women in the so-called stem fields, that is, in science and technology. the report by mrs schleicher makes proposals which aim to help to remove the invisible obstacles to women's career advancement. she also dealt very well with the issue of the reconciliation of women's professional and family life, particularly in science. it sets out specific measures to be taken to enable women to return to scientific life after maternity leave without being "hit by the train" and losing touch with developments in the field. i want to thank my colleague very much for her work.
in writing. ‒ while i firmly believe women must take leadership roles in the field of research and within universities, i do not believe that quotas are the answer to the inequalities that exist today. a more balanced participation of women in science and research is vital for achieving the eu’s competitiveness and growth aims, but this can only be achieved by creating a social environment that balances work and family. we need a society that has the services needed to allow women to put all efforts into their work. instead of quotas, let's build a social environment where women do not have to choose between being a good mother and being leaders in their fields.
in writing. the report on the career trajectory of women in science and academia and the glass ceiling they're running into went off without a hitch, but i'm glad i was able to help her with my voice. the term "glass ceiling" was coined in 1986 by journalists from the wall street journal. it denotes the invisible barriers related to prejudice that prevent women from advancing in the profession. although considerable progress has been made in this area, i believe that further positive developments are needed. however, it should not be limited to the gender issue. i believe that inequalities associated with different socio-economic environments need to be recognised and corrected. higher education as well as careers in science must be accessible to young people from disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. i hope that in the near future the european parliament will also address this issue and begin to look at science and higher education in a more comprehensive way. if we do not give disadvantaged groups the means to flourish, then we cannot complain that they have not moved.
in writing. - i voted against it. gender alarmism is typical euro nonsense. i was elected to the european parliament to oppose such a resolution. the text calls for further action by the commission in this regard.
in writing. i supported the report on the career path of women in science and higher education and the glass ceiling they face, because despite the positive changes in recent years, gender equality has not yet been achieved in science and academia, although the situation varies from country to country, from field to field and from degree to degree. the exceptionally low representation of women in senior academic and decision-making positions in scientific institutions and universities may indicate the existence of invisible prejudiced barriers that block women's access to positions of responsibility. the commission, the member states and research funding organisations should develop programmes to actively encourage women to continue their careers after maternity or parental leave and to provide support for their reintegration into the labour market. these programmes should include training to keep pace with scientific developments and ensure adequate childcare services.
in writing. ‒ i am happy for the parliament’s vote on the women’s careers in science and universities report. although we have made great strides when it comes to gender equality, there is still plenty of work to be done. this report has made some good steps in the right direction. we must bring our attention to the disproportionate representation of men and women when it comes to roles in higher education, such as professors, because europe loses here a lot. i also appreciate that it points out the gender gap when it comes to wages, and how a woman can still be paid less than a man for doing the same job. we call for the creation of programmes to help facilitate women in having a more active place in the work force, especially when it comes to education and the stem fields. this not only is a benefit in itself, but provides the opportunity for younger generations to see women in positions of power and prominence which will help to bring an end to the unjust system of gender inequality.
in writing. girls make up more than half of all college graduates. it is therefore unacceptable that in pursuing further application not only in the academic sphere, she has to encounter a glass ceiling of a number of gender barriers and stereotypes. equally important is the improvement of the conditions for reconciling personal and professional life. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes a possible solution to this situation.
in writing. ‒ while i support the need to enhance a strategy, in order to achieve universal equality between men and women in their respective careers in science, education and technology, i chose to abstain as i could not agree with some of the tools proposed to achieve this goal, and especially the women on boards directive.
mr president, i regret that i could not support the report on empowering girls in the eu through education. such a blasphemous name conceals a number of problematic points which, moreover, are directly contrary to the basic treaties on the functioning of the union. they violate the guaranteed principle of subsidiarity, for example in the matter of compulsory sex education. while the material contains some true and important information, it does not provide any new practical solutions. a reasonable person sees the equality of man and woman, but also their significant natural differences. they know that equal access to education is the foundation of a healthy society. there's a lot to be done to improve the status of girls and women in society. but this is definitely not the way to success. the commission has already proposed the introduction of compulsory sex education, which is a matter for the member states. i am really glad that this is just non-binding material that does not have to be automatically accepted by the member states.
in writing. the report on increasing the participation of girls through education in the eu may have seemed gender-focused at first glance, but it was not, and i was happy to support it. in the text, we find perhaps trivial but important statements that all future governments should take to heart. the report mentions, for example, that education can transform society and contribute to social, economic, political and gender equality, and that only states can provide free compulsory general education, which is a prerequisite for ensuring equal opportunities for both sexes. however, it also criticises the policy of budget cuts in education, which are largely the result of austerity policies promoted by the eu, which threaten free, high-quality public education and thus contribute to deepening inequalities. given that poverty has a major impact on equal access to education due to the direct and indirect costs associated with children's schooling, and that access to education, especially higher education, is particularly difficult for young people from low-income families, i hope that governments will insist that quality public education should be free and accessible to all children without any discrimination and regardless of residence status.
in writing. - i voted against it. gender alarmism is typical euro nonsense. i was elected to the european parliament to oppose such a resolution. the text calls for further action by the commission in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i am proud of the vote in parliament on the report on empowering girls though education in the eu. gender inequality is a significant hurdle that we must overcome. unfortunately, this inequality starts at a very young age. i feel that measures to create gender equality need to be applied at all levels of the education system. in addition, these systems must foster a spirit of tolerance, and genuine equality. i also share the view that we should have equal gender representation in leadership in organisations that are responsible for education, especially those in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem ) so as to provide role models for our youth. it is time that we rid our system of gender stereotypes and created an open, gender-equal education system, so that this sentiment can permeate to the rest of society.
in writing. - access to education is a basic human right and a right of every child, which should be guaranteed to boys as well as girls. unfortunately, girls are often disadvantaged by gender stereotypes, and the situation is even more difficult for those who come from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. in mrs rodrigues' report i appreciate, among other things, her concern for these groups, and i therefore voted in favour of her.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report aiming to ensure the equality and empowerment of girls through education. it also calls for fight against gender stereotyping and encourage more women to take up science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which criticises the efta states for accepting too little of the community acquis. on the contrary, the european union should follow the efta model and abolish the vast majority of its outdated acquis. the longer the eu is regulated in this way, the longer it will be in economic trouble.
in writing. i supported the report on the eea-switzerland: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market, which has two parts. it assesses economic relations with iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland as good, noting for example that switzerland and norway are the eu's fourth and fifth most important trading partners by volume. however, it also concerns the free movement of persons, which switzerland, as a schengen state, has undertaken to implement. the commission notes that the measures taken by switzerland in 2014 and 2015 are in line with the commitments under the agreement on the free movement of persons. the question of migration of third-country nationals cannot be confused with the question of free movement of persons. the issue of migration is certainly extremely complex, but the current rules on the free movement of persons as a fundamental pillar of the single market must be respected and applied in a non-discriminatory manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which follows the ini report adopted in 2010 on the same topic as well as the 2012 resolution on swiss quotas on the number of residence permits granted to nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. the eea agreement is considered as an effective instrument to extend the single market to third countries. however, we can be concerned about increasing eu rules transposition deficit, which could jeopardize the functioning of the internal market. the report therefore calls third countries to remedy this situation. it also deplores the unilateral measures (administrative fees or obligatory bank guarantees) which restrict the provision of services in switzerland.
mr president, i really could not support this report again because it contains recommendations again, a request for the introduction of compulsory quotas for the relocation of refugees, and this model should become the standard solution, which in my view is not acceptable. the member states must always agree on their own, decide according to the possibilities available to them. no one can dictate that to them from above. the czech republic is also already accepting refugees. it is our duty to be solidarity and also responsible for the safety of our own citizens. i am convinced that relocating refugees is not the answer. i am therefore pleased that the european commission is finally coming up with another solution that will better secure the external borders of the european union and help refugees, refugees in places where conflicts arise, and contribute to creating better conditions in so-called safer countries. i think this is a solution that's more promising.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the draft resolution 2015/2833 as i believe it represents an endorsement not only of the emergency relocation of asylum seekers to all member states of the union, but also of the creation of a permanent redistribution system. i have long disagreed with these proposals, because they go against the logic of granting asylum and by their very nature can cause a number of serious problems for the member states and the union itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it proposes the creation of a permanent redistribution system. indeed, i believe that that this should only be one potential pillar of a more comprehensive european asylum and migration plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on migration and refugees in europe. i am categorically opposed to mandatory quotas for refugees. no one can dictate to sovereign states who should be granted international protection on their territory, just as no one can force refugees to take refuge where they do not want to.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this joint resolution because it proposes to distribute refugees among member states on the basis of binding quotas. in my view, the solution is not to pressure member states to accept the number of refugees set by the eu, but to the willingness to accept and the ability to accept these refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution urging the eu’s special representative to make better use of the political relations and institutional powers of the european union and its member states to ensure the eu plays a veritable political role in the peace process between israelis and palestinians and also, more broadly, between israel and the arab states. i also voted in favour of this text, as i believe that this is time to resume talks between israel and palestine. in this respect the eu has to be more influential and propose a global initiative for peace in the region.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution because i think it is overly critical. i support the peace process and i consider the efforts of the state of israel to be welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls on the commission to provide financial and political support to the work of civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations to support the democratic aspirations of the belarus people. it also reminds that belarus is the only country in europe that still applies the death penalty and that ten people have been executed there since 2010.
in writing. the concept of a socially beneficial enterprise is still a distant one for many, and wrongly so. the social economy currently employs up to 14 million europeans. i supported the report on the role of social enterprise and social innovation in combating unemployment (2014/2236 ((ini)) as social and solidarity economy enterprises promote values over the interests of capital. they are not blindly focused on profit. they focus on social and often environmental goals. in addition, they provide employment to disadvantaged citizens, who are often affected by disabilities or other factors that cause their social exclusion. i also supported the request to include social enterprises in the member states' employment action plans, as they can help achieve one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i also voted for improving the financial position of these entities, which should have better access to european funds, micro-credit and other financing instruments. i supported a more flexible application of the state aid rules, which should help rather than hinder them. i also spoke in favour of greater european coordination, which is currently lacking, and the creation of a new legal framework for these bodies. i believe that only a strengthening of social dialogue, adequate information exchange and communication with the public will help to give the sector the necessary visibility and lead to the necessary social innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combating unemployment. indeed, it is now time to go beyond the 2012 social entrepreneurship initiative to further support the growth of the social and solidarity-based economy with the introduction of a european trust mark for social entrepreneurship and giving companies holding this trust mark their own legal status.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote and improve the position of social and solidarity-based enterprises. these enterprises do not look primarily at themselves and their own benefits, but help to improve society as a whole by providing services to people affected by social events, by creating jobs that are more economically stable in times of crisis, and by creating jobs for those who are disadvantaged in the normal labour market. i think it's mostly young graduates, old people and women.
in writing. while in some countries of the european union the level of unemployment among the population has stabilised at relatively low levels, there are still a number of countries with very high levels of this economic indicator. the fact that this is not a phenomenon confined to southern europe is also shown by the latest statistics, which highlight in particular the level of youth unemployment in various parts of europe. the average is above 20 percent. the commission has therefore concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiaries does not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. this was particularly the case with the necessary cooperation between universities and the private sector, which should lead to a more flexible response to labour market developments. i also supported the role of the erasmus+ programme. i am convinced that it is programmes of this kind that can help the young generation in europe to acquire the experience and knowledge that employers value. i fully agree that smes are an important part of the economy. but i cannot agree that the legislation that governs it should be reduced to the detriment of workers' rights. i therefore voted against a report which, while giving the green light to entrepreneurs, could lead to a deterioration in the working conditions of all european workers. i believe that the priority problems of the european labour market remain underinvestment in human capital, unequal pay and lack of mobility. that's what we need to focus on right now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report stresses that ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms are required in order to increase labour market and personal career flexibility, better matching of skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and businesses. the report highlights the importance of mobility of workers for the competitive labour market and calls for further developing tools and better promoting the eu current initiatives in this respect. a special attention is granted to the importance of promoting initiatives which foster self-employment and entrepreneurship, with a particular focus on the smes and on micro-enterprises, as backbone of the eu labour market.
in writing. ‒ the fight against unemployment is one of the challenges facing the european union, with unemployment rates varying significantly from one country to another. i supported this report because it identifies the fundamental problem that is at the root of unemployment, namely the inflexibility of both the labour market and the jobseekers. the key element is therefore to link the skills and abilities of individuals to the needs of the labour market through better cooperation between education institutions and the workplace. i also appreciate the report's support for small businesses as the backbone of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report covering the 2012 and 2013 commission’s reports. the report contains a number of good elements. it insists on the need for the commission and member states should better coordinate their efforts at an earlier stage of the legislative process with a view of ensuing and effective implementation. it also urges the commission, when drafting and assessing legislation, to take greater account of the burden it may impose on smes. finally, it recalls that eu legislation must be transposed properly and promptly into the legal order of each member state and urges members to avoid the practice of ‘gold-plating’.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament, i think that you should explain to us all, as we sit here, your scandalous and totally unacceptable statements about your wish to impose a community europe by force. what does it mean to push the european community through? explain that to us.
that you want to impose this europe, this spirit of community, by force: mit der macht durchsetzen. you said that, so don't lie.
madam president, let me explain to you what the rules of procedure of the european parliament are. you, as president, cannot respond politically and you cannot speak your personal opinion. i ask you to respect the rules of procedure of the european parliament and not to repeat these mistakes. and if you only have information from the media, please don't share your information here. have you been to hungary? did you see that line there? did you meet those people there? and have you seen how many people are actually refugees and how many people are immigrants trying to get here illegally? that was my technical reaction, and now i'd like to comment on what was said here. i do not see monday's council as problematic and unfortunately i do not join those who are expressing their sceptical views on how the council has turned out. i think we've all declared that we're open to negotiation and that we need to start acting. if someone has a different opinion, we cannot threaten to stop european subsidies, but we must sit down and discuss it further. this is a democratic europe.
madam president, the discussion of the cabinet meeting shows that we all have one common goal. that means addressing a situation that is becoming truly critical, and today's events in hungary only confirm that. we have different views on what approaches to take. i cannot agree with my colleague verhofstadt, who said that the decision should be taken by a vote. does that mean overrule those who are in the minority in the council of ministers? i think it's a good result that there was no overturning. the european union can only succeed if it is united, and it will be united if there is room for understanding even among those countries which wish to join in their solidarity, but solidarity which is voluntary. i am convinced that this will be even more so in countries which today have a different approach, such as the czech republic.
mr president, the creation of the energy union is clearly a step in the right direction. the creation of a flexible european energy system based on clean modern technologies does not pose a threat to our competitiveness. on the contrary, it is a unique opportunity for our industry, our consumers and our research. that is why i also welcome this package. in particular, the empowerment of consumers, whether households or businesses, is key to the new way of using and producing energy. however, some proposals are unfortunately not ambitious enough to really contribute to our goal of moving to a low-carbon economy by 2050. it cannot be achieved without a significant increase in investment in new technologies and in the modernisation of european industry. this is hundreds of billions of euros, which should come from both private actors and public resources, and which will need to be spent in the coming years. the sale of emission allowances must be one of them. i therefore consider the commission's proposed revision of this system to be insufficient in this area, since the impact on the modernisation of the european economy will be much smaller than i would have expected.
mr. president, the czech republic is being threatened by the german government and allegedly the european commission. they say we can't get structural funds if we don't agree to refugee quotas. threatening and envy, are those the european values? where's the respect for dissent? can't we just say no? but you know what, you can put the grants in your hat. because subsidies are a cancer that's growing and destroying everything that's healthy in the economy. if we don't get these subsidies, i'm telling you, it's not only good for our economy, but it's good for our own dignity and our honor.
mr president, tomorrow we will vote on the european parliament's opinion on the council's decision to implement the relocation of refugees. again, as last week, we have only one part of the measure on the table. i therefore call on the european commission to speed up and implement concrete measures to enable the return of those who are not eligible for asylum and concrete measures to stabilise the countries from which refugees come. i am referring to humanitarian aid in the refugee camps in turkey, jordan, lebanon and also in iraq. but also peace operations in territories from which people are being expelled. as i said last week, mandatory quotas are not the answer. the european commission has apparently taken note of our call for the member states to decide for themselves. it therefore proposes the possibility of a temporary derogation from the mandatory quota in exchange for financial compensation. the problem is that the commission wants to decide whether the member states' reasons are adequate. basically, he keeps the final say. i can't vote for that decision. my country, the czech republic, is solidary, and our leaders have clearly declared their willingness to accept thousands of refugees. but the unity we call for cannot be forced, it cannot be ordered, it must be built on voluntary acceptance.
mr president, i would like to make a statement on behalf of czech farmers, especially cow farmers and milk producers. the price of milk in the czech republic has fallen below the 1996 level and is now less than 7 czk per litre, or eur 0.26 in conversion. the farmers are pushed into a completely unequal position by the consumers, who dictate prices to them that are completely below their real costs. the situation of czech farmers is made worse by the fact that milk prices in the czech republic have been below the european average for a long time. whereas in germany, for example, prices fall from a higher base, we had no such pillow. the situation is critical for many czech farmers. and literally fighting for their very existence. it was caused by a combination of two effects. by abolishing the milk quotas and the russian embargo. i think it is necessary to relax the current situation on the european milk market. i support the increase in the intervention price for dairy products and the temporary launch of export subsidies for markets outside the eu. we must help farmers, because their work is important not only for the agricultural activity itself, for production, but also for the care of the landscape.
mr president, i am happy to support this commission programme for 2016 because i believe it really does answer the questions, whether economic, social or environmental. i also appreciated the commission's awareness of its duty to promote its work in particular in areas where a humanitarian crisis is occurring. i really appreciated that. and i also want to say that i supported this program precisely because it recognizes the risk of the so-called climate refugees. that is, those who may be heading to europe or other areas precisely because they have been affected by drought or other natural disasters. i therefore supported the commission's proposal and i hope that many of the preparations announced by the commission will be put into practice so that the european union can be properly prepared for future dangers.
in writing. ‒ while i agree in principle with the commission's work programme for 2016, mainly because of its intentions in the union's economic policies, i decided to abstain because of the lack of a conceptual solution to the current immigration crisis.
in writing. it is absolutely unbelievable that the european parliament, time and again, approves reports calling for quotas and refuses to discuss any other solution. the situation is all the more crazy because the european parliament has no role in the decision-making process on quotas. only the council can adopt quotas, but the european parliament has chosen to ignore this reality. this causes panic in the media, which is transmitted to the czech citizens. reason is pushed aside and anger and fear are brought to the fore. social networks are flooded with hateful rhetoric, often causing blood to clot in the veins. just as each person is responsible for what he writes and says, governments should be responsible for how they handle the situation. threats from angry bloggers or top government officials do not help the situation but rather escalate it. if we do not all tackle this issue in a substantive way, it could lead to a new division of europe or to the transfer of the redistribution conflict within individual member states. now, the question is not which side of the barricade i'm on, but whether i'm willing or able to look at the situation rationally and without prejudice. i have repeatedly and repeatedly voted against the quotas and therefore against the report as a whole.
in writing. i consider the commission work programme to be a quality document which should target the commission's efforts in areas which are of key importance to the union. i welcome, for example, the emphasis on combating tax fraud, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and the use of tax havens. that's why i supported the program as a whole. however, i consider some of the proposals to be inappropriate and to be heading in a direction which does not correspond to the deepening of the free market and the promotion of the competitiveness of countries on their own terms. and they vary from country to country. i did not support the part of the resolution on the commission work programme 2016 that talks about promoting fair labour mobility, which is a fundamental freedom of the single market. i am afraid that this formulation may sound like a challenge to labour mobility and its conditioning by certain restrictions. i also did not support the call for a strong response to the risks of social dumping, among others, because i believe that the term 'social dumping' is often misused to undermine the competitive advantages of workers from the new member states and ultimately to restrict the free movement of persons and services in the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the resolution on the commission's work programme, the final draft of which was pushed forward by the social democrats, was adopted today by a large majority of meps and strongly supported by all pro-european political groups. the proposal reflects the current challenges facing the eu and also responds to the state of the union address by european commission president juncker last week. the european commission will present its programme in october and i believe that the european parliament's clearly stated priorities today will be reflected in its proposals and serve as the main pillars for the commission's detailed proposals. it is precisely because the social democrats were the main force in negotiating the final form of the resolution that the priorities of the social democrats are reflected in the main priorities of the resolution. in particular, this will include the completion of economic and monetary union, a major update and completion of the content and formal communication lines of the europe 2020 strategy, the adoption of permanent functional legislation to manage migration and asylum policy, and last but not least, a significant strengthening of the social dimension in the form of investments in measures to combat the increase in poverty and unemployment, in particular in the areas of public services, childcare and early education, and active employment policies.
in writing. ‒ if it is necessary that the commission make full use of its right of initiative in order to give the union a clear direction in 2016, particularly by completing the single market and producing the strategic roadmap for economic union and political union, as well as for external action, i abstain on the final vote of this resolution. indeed, the draft resolution supports the creation of an obligatory resettlement mechanism which i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the commission's plans as a whole, although they contain some positive points, such as reducing the administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i have long disagreed with proposals for the mandatory relocation of refugees within the union, as they do not provide a real solution to current problems and threaten the political stability of the union.
in writing. ‒ until i know the answer to the question whether the proposed permanent relocation mechanism has an abuse guarantee and a cap and how this cap will be determined, i cannot vote for any of these proposals in line with the czech government's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal of the commission to relocate 120 000 people from greece, italy and hungary. indeed, as i underline consistently, i am opposed to the quotas system proposed by the commission. refugees can not be forced to go to a particular country if they do not want to stay there.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i am fundamentally opposed to mandatory refugee quotas for member states. this is not a solution to the migration problem, and it cannot work in practice.
i would like to say, madam president, that i consider these measures to be exceptional, exceptional even in view of the exceptional time in which they are taking place. on the one hand, there is the irresponsible behaviour of the greek government, which undoubtedly has its share of responsibility, very crucial, for the economic situation that greece is in now. but also how much time was wasted in a time when it could have been handled in a positive way. i think we cannot even drown the confidence of the european taxpayers. i am not entirely sure that the positive measures we are here to support are sufficiently conditional for the future, that is to say, that the european taxpayer will not be the last in line to see no results. however, i want to show solidarity with the greek people and for that reason i consider it necessary to support the proposed measures.
madam president, i also want to thank the rapporteur for her report. in my view, the role of local authorities, subsidiarity and decentralisation are not empty words, and i am therefore pleased that the rapporteur also respects and appreciates local authorities in this respect. the debate here was about fish stinking from the head and the question of what the real role of local authorities is in the development of the european area. i think that this statement is in no way to be accepted and i can illustrate it with concrete examples. in the czech republic, the level of public debt is eur 70 billion. the local authorities, i.e. the municipalities and regions, only contribute three billion, i.e. one twentieth of this amount. and so the question is to what extent the municipalities, the regions, are also responsible for the actions of the government, that is, how can local authorities be sanctioned when the government does not comply with budgetary policy. that's something to think about, too.
i would like to thank you very much for your report, which is certainly very thoughtful. local authorities play a key role in protecting vulnerable groups in fragile crisis-affected states and their role should not be underestimated. the european union is facing the consequences of a major humanitarian crisis, which has affected some countries in the middle east and north africa. a state of peace, economic prosperity and cohesion of communities and local authorities are the keys to solving the current crisis. we must not forget that many refugees in the european union do not want to live, and they are fleeing their homes because of civil wars and the poor economic situation in their countries. i was pleased to read that the report calls for the creation of local consultation platforms in budget planning, but i cannot understand why it did not go a little further with women and speak in favour of the introduction of participatory budgets. while i appreciate the emphasis in the report on the role of civil society in local communities, i cannot agree with the emphasis on the private sector.
madam president, i would like to comment only on what i think has been said here beyond the national debate. moreover, the fact that many colleagues have taken this as a national debate, i think, has been to the detriment of the whole thing, to discuss this very serious subject. there is no doubt that information, transparency, the recovery of mortgages, consumer protection, the procedural safeguards of these rights are european issues that deserve protection, and this whole set of measures is linked to the issue of financial literacy. i would very much like to see european law promoting financial literacy and the level of rights guaranteed at a common european level in a restrictive way. to put the emphasis on information and to minimise interference with national legislation, especially private law. from this point of view, too, i consider it necessary for the commission to avoid imposing itself by force on national law. that might not be a good thing.
mr president, i would like to say that as everything has a face and a face, this is particularly true of dual-use goods. the beard and the cheek, i think it depends on the progress of our allies. at a time when european businesses should naturally be pursuing the desired development, employment and competitiveness, dual-use goods are in principle acceptable to us, that is to say, if they actually fulfil the purpose of developing europe in this field of competitiveness. but the moment that this is not the case, then of course we start to be bothered by such goods, and the moment that european companies are thus crowding out other competing companies of our coalition allies, especially from nato countries, then that is, i think, one of the things that we would probably be bothered by if this activity were not coordinated. i thank the commissioner very much for her considerate approach. i will follow the public debate that she has set up for this task and i will firmly hope that these rules will be modernized and authorized.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for a rather good and substantive discussion. the question of infringing the right to use private property is a question of human integrity. the question of human integrity is always a moral question. i don't think any regulation by the european commission will ensure that similar software is not sold to countries that have a human rights problem. i think it's more of a moral issue. companies that can make a fair amount of money on special software should be able to understand and integrate this so that they don't have to sell the software to countries that have human rights problems and violations.
mr president, last week i returned from a mission in greece to inspect seven priority projects financed by european union grants. one of these projects was the unfinished digital land register. greece is the last member state of the european union without a digital land register. it still uses a paper register, that is, it does not fully identify and describe the individual plots, their positions and boundaries. this is not legal certainty, the list is not complete and the existing owners of land are not identified, and it also means that it is impossible to use an environmental strategy, to use natural resources and, above all, to tax property successfully. i consider this to be an incredibly irresponsible and one of the great weaknesses of the greek system, which has an impact on the lives of ordinary greeks, but also on the other european countries that are subsidizing greece through rescue programs. the greek government should take this project as an absolute priority and the commission should, instead of providing additional money, contribute with instructions for successful implementation.
commissioner, allow me first of all to thank our rapporteur, virginie rozière, and the other colleagues for the excellent work they have done on this report. the extension of the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products can have a number of positive effects for their producers, consumers and entire regions. traditional handicrafts specific to certain territories are also an important element of europe's historical and cultural heritage and it is desirable to promote their access to the internal market through common rules and their effective enforcement. the system should be accompanied by the establishment of a single european register. in this context, i would stress that the registration of products must be subject to continuous monitoring to ensure that products consistently comply with the criteria for this label. the system will thus contribute to increasing consumer confidence in branded products. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal as soon as possible, and i trust that you, commissioner, will support this.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, ms rozière, for her report on the establishment of a geographical indication protection system at eu level for non-agricultural products. the commission had decided to put this idea to the test through a green paper and a public consultation in summer 2014. the results of the consultation, published in june of this year, were supportive of such a system. let me remind you what the situation is about. a geographical indication identifies goods as originating from a country, region or locality where a particular quality, reputation or other characteristic of the product is linked to its geographical origin: for example, bordeaux wine, murano glass or irish whiskey. agriculture products such as cheeses, wines, meats, fruits and vegetables from a specific geographical origin, possessing certain qualities or made according to traditional methods, may be afforded eu-wide geographical indication protection. however, non-agricultural products, such as ceramics, marble, cutlery, shoes, tapestries and musical instruments, do not, to date, enjoy unitary geographical indication protection at eu level beyond national laws. that is, for instance, the case of carrara marble from italy, solingen knives from germany, koniaków lace from poland or haapsalu mud from estonia. moving towards a system of non-agricultural geographical indications would be a major step, the costs and benefits of which would need to be assessed very carefully. what we do know is that direct and indirect employment in the sectors producing geographically-rooted non-agricultural products has been estimated at around four million jobs. on the positive side, i can see four benefits. first, safeguarding jobs and wealth in economically fragile areas: two-thirds of the regions from which non-agricultural geographical indication products originate have a poverty rate or an unemployment rate above 20%. second, encouraging tourism: geographical indication products have always been innovating using traditional knowhow or cultural heritage. the underlying image of quality can have a significant impact on the attractiveness of regions at local and international level. third, increasing the distinctiveness and attraction of the relevant products would help increase sales volumes and thus the competitiveness of european businesses – mostly small and medium enterprises – as was the case for agricultural products. fourth, helping consumers make more informed choices while preventing fraudulent use of geographical indications. beyond these issues and as your report also points out, there would be positive effects on trade relations with third countries too. indeed, an eu-wide protection system could positively impact our bilateral negotiations with emerging and developing countries interested in securing better protection for their geographical indication products in the eu. at multilateral level in the world trade organisation, the eu’s negotiating efforts to improve the level of protection for geographical indications would also benefit from an extension of the protection to non-agricultural products. however, there are also drawbacks. such a system would imply quite far-reaching regulatory intervention, the proportionality of which will need to be assessed very carefully. your report brings an important input to the ongoing reflection on an eu-wide protection system for non-agricultural geographical indications. the commission will consider your recommendations with attention and will continue to reflect, with all interested parties, on a possible way forward.
in writing.– expanding the eu system of geographical indicators to include non-agricultural goods would mean greater protection, transparency and information for both eu consumers and producers. european consumers will be better informed about the quality and origin of the product they are buying. the skills of producers will be recognised and protected in a more coherent manner. by also securing the prestige of local european handicraft, this could, importantly, help in bringing growth and securing jobs in the local areas that produce these products. in order to feel the full economic benefits of this eu-wide protection, we must ensure that information on the system reaches all consumers and producers. a unitary eu level of protection, however, should not mean the elimination of protection at national level. not all producers will need protection at eu level, particularly those who run their business in only one state. the eu unitary system should thus coexist with the member state level so that producers may choose the type of protection that will best meet their needs.
mr. chairman, i hear from all of you here who are passionate about redistributing migrants how you are morally superior and how barbaric the countries that refuse quotas are. but what kind of moral is that? you want to be moral at the expense of others, because forced solidarity is not real solidarity. you first disrupt syria, libya, then you lure migrants to europe, and then you want to share them. then, by a vote of no confidence in the council, which is nothing but a dictate, you promote the redistribution of people. but every action has a reaction, and i firmly believe that the elections in poland will result in the next polish government standing with the czech republic, hungary, slovakia and others firmly against these permanent quotas.
mr. chairman, i'm glad we're finally moving from words to action. the czech republic is not protesting against the council's vote, but we want to show solidarity and contribute to the financing of humanitarian aid. over the past two years, the czech republic has contributed eur 3 million to provide humanitarian aid in syria and the middle east. in this context, i would also like to ask the commissioner and the minister why we do not yet include egypt among the safe countries, which already has thousands of refugees on its territory. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that the european parliament will also respond quickly to the financial support and i am prepared to vote for a budget that will allow the provision of human conditions in the refugee camps.
in writing. i consider this debate on the humanitarian dimension of the migration crisis to be very important. the european union is more often criticized than praised in the context of the refugee crisis. i would therefore like to emphasise that it is precisely in the field of humanitarian aid to refugees that the eu and its citizens are making the greatest efforts and the results are visible. but i believe that we need to better organise and make this aid more effective, so that it is not just targeted at some refugees, but that it includes everyone in the eu and at its borders.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the council decision authorising the member states to ratify the 2014 ilo forced labour convention in order to promote the combat of this criminal phenomenon which is unfortunately still present in contemporary europe. the steps to be undertaken will protect the victims of forced labour and fight human trafficking as well as the black market in general.
in writing. on 6 october 2015, at the strasbourg plenary, i supported the recommendation on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the eu, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention on forced labour, 1930, as regards articles 1 to 4. the forced labour convention is one of the eight core conventions of the international labour organisation and is considered an instrument for the protection and promotion of human rights. the protocol seeks to address shortcomings in the implementation of the convention and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour (slavery) as well as in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in ensuring the rights of victims of crime across europe. it is therefore of the utmost importance that all member states proceed to the accelerated ratification of the protocol, as this will greatly facilitate the fight against trafficking in human beings. which, in the light of today's migration crisis, where organised crime on a mass scale is essentially trafficking in human beings, is exactly one of the measures that the eu today urgently needs. as all our members supported this recommendation in the previous vote in the libe committee, i could not have voted otherwise in the plenary vote.
in writing. the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions that constitute the basic international labour standards and is considered a human rights instrument. by adopting this convention in 1930, the international labour organization called on states to prohibit the use of forced labor as soon as possible and to criminalize it as a crime. eighty years later, the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the protocol seeks to address implementation gaps and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. i am convinced that ratification of the protocol by eu member states will facilitate the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is why i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am proud of parliaments’ vote on the ilo forced labour convention recommendation. the european union is a force for human rights and this vote further supports that. the ilo estimates that there are still at least 20.9 million people who are victims of forced labour, and this comes 80 years after the initial adoption of the convention. this protocol will help fill in the gaps in the implementation to help prevent the trafficking of labour exploitation. i support the calls for ilo member states to develop a national policy for the constant subduing of forced labour. in addition, the measure also helps the victims of forced labour be released, protected and rehabilitated, as well as allowing them other assistance. this protocol is based on fundamental human rights, and i believe that it will help to fight the trafficking of victims. this convention is just as important today as it was almost a century ago.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleagues on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i find it shameful that there are almost nine hundred thousand women, children and men in the european union who are forced to work every day in degrading conditions, whether it be sexual exploitation, begging or other degrading work. worldwide, as many as 21 million people are subjected to these forms of forced labor. the 2014 update of the protocol to the 1930 ilo forced labour convention will certainly, in my opinion, improve the possibilities of prevention as well as remediation. women, children and men should not be exploited under any circumstances, and i particularly appreciate the efforts to address the root causes that increase the risks of forced labour. i see this recommendation as fundamental and i firmly believe it will lead to positive change.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the 2014 protocol of the forced labour convention is a significant step in the fight against trafficking and in ensuring the rights of victims of crime in europe. moreover, it is an important human rights instrument and i therefore voted in favour of the report. the convention called upon the states to end the use of forced labour in 1930, yet the international labour organization estimates that today there are still 20.9 million victims of trafficking globally. the protocol aims to address gaps in implementation and strengthen trafficking prevention. the draft council decision authorises member states to ratify, in the interest of the eu, those parts of the protocol that fall into areas of eu competence and recommends they do so by the end of 2016.
in writing. the text on the control of methamphetamine passed the european parliament very easily and i am glad i was able to help with that. methamphetamine is probably the most dangerous drug today, destroying the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and families around the world. the czech republic is currently the largest illicit producer of pervitin in europe, despite very good results from the national drug control centre. however, a problem that is often perceived as purely czech must also be seen from a pan-european perspective. the continued trend in the production of methamphetamine is the extraction of pseudoephedrine from over-the-counter medicines, which are sold without any restrictions in some european countries. as the popularity of methamphetamine has increased in recent years, coupled with increasing production capacity, the amount of toxic waste that ends up in uncontrolled water and wildlife is increasing, posing a significant threat to the environment, animals and human life and health. the issue of methamphetamine is therefore very complex and it is therefore good that we are addressing it with our european partners. but why mr petr mach voted against the text is a mystery to me. surely he must recognize that there are limits to individual freedom, especially when we are dealing with such highly addictive substances that destroy individuals, families, and communities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report aiming to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. the substance 4-methylamphetamine emerged on the illicit amphetamine market in 2009. by the time of an eu risk-assessment in 2012, it had been detected in 15 member states and there had been a total of 21 fatalities registered in four member states related to its abuse. the controls are especially desirable because of the health risks it poses, especially when used in combination with other substances, its strong resemblance in appearance and effects with amphetamine, the fact that users may consume it unknowingly, and its limited medical value or use.
in writing. ‒ the substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole appears to be a stimulant substance that may also have hallucinogenic effects. it is commercially available on the internet and from ‘head shops’, marketed as a ‘research chemical’. a total of 24 fatalities have been registered in four member states from april to august 2012 in relation to it. the available scientific evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures across the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report seeking to put potentially dangerous new psychoactive substances under control. the substance 25i-nbome is a classical serotonergic hallucinogen, which has been subject to control measures and criminal sanctions at eu level from 2003. ah-7921 is a structurally atypical synthetic opioid analgesic commonly known as 'doxylam'. it can be easily confused with ‘doxylamine’, an anti-histaminic medicine with sedative-hypnotic properties, which could lead to unintentional overdoses. mdpv is a ring-substituted synthetic derivative of cathinone chemically related to pyrovalerone, which are both subject to control under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. one hundred and eight fatalities were registered in eight member states and norway between september 2009 and august 2013 relating to it. methoxetamine is a substance which is chemically similar to ketamine and the internationally-controlled substance phencyclidine (pcp). twenty deaths associated with methoxetamine have been reported by six member states. the risk assessment recommended by the council concluded that these substances should be put under control to minimise the health and social risk they cause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which supports subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures across the eu. the substances 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 are new psychoactive substances. while more research is needed, available evidence suggests they pose health and social risk. the substance 4,4'-dmar emerged on the new psychoactive substances market in 2012 as a ‘research chemical’ sold by internet retailers, and it is now available on the street market. there have been 31 deaths associated with 4,4'-dmar registered in three member states, between june 2013 and june 2014. mt-45 was invented in the early 1970s. a total of 28 fatalities due to mt-45 occurring between november 2013 and july 2014 have been reported by one member state.
in writing. - i voted against this taxpayer money. the european union is not an insurance company. if member states want to help bulgaria and greece, it should be voluntary.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that the parliament had voted to mobilize the eu solidarity fund in order to cope with the disasters in bulgaria and greece. early this year, bulgaria was hit with heavy snow and rain causing floods and landslides. these events caused major damage private homes and businesses, as well as public infrastructure. in greece, widespread flooding in the central and western regions. these floods have damaged water supplies and agriculture in addition to public and private structures. these incidents have been qualified as a “major national disaster” and as a “regional disaster” according to the regulation, and i have relieved that these regions can finally get the aid that they need to recover and rebuild. i would like to remind at this moment how helpful was the eu solidarity fund in the czech republic after the huge floods in 2013.
in writing. i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for greece and bulgaria. both countries faced severe natural disasters in january and february and i therefore believe that financial assistance from the european union is needed. i am sure that more than eur 6 million for bulgaria and almost eur 10 million for greece will help the affected countries to recover as quickly and as well as possible from the devastating natural disasters. i think it is essential that the european union should contribute to these countries. the czech republic has also been hit by devastating floods several times in the last 20 years and i am aware of the importance of financial assistance as soon as possible to restore infrastructure, for example. i therefore believe that the european union solidarity fund will be used effectively to help the people of both countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing financial assistance to bulgaria and greece, which were severely hit by natural disasters in 2015. major parts of bulgaria suffered from heavy rainfall, snow, floods and landslides in january and february 2015. greece was affected by wide-spread flooding in the evros and the central and western regions in february 2015. these disasters caused considerable damage to public infrastructure, businesses, private homes and agriculture. thanks to the mobilisation of the fund, bulgaria and greece receive in total eur 6 377 815 and eur 9 896 950 in aid respectively, including already contributed advance payments.
madam president, i would also like to explain why i voted in favour of mrs rozière's report on extending the protection of geographical indications in the union to non-agricultural products. i think this is an important report and a task for the european commission, which should prepare the legislative procedure for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. it turns out that this is useful and it is also very necessary so that traditional crafts, traditional products are protected. i consider it very important that this resolution also includes support for the transfer and development of traditional know-how and related skills, which are an integral part of apprenticeship and vocational training. the european parliament also stresses the importance of investing in education and training and encourages member states to use financial support.
madam president, i too supported the motion tabled by the honourable member, but i do not think it is necessary to be completely convinced of the importance of this protection at union level, which is undisputed. it is not just about crafts, but about local production in general, about protecting it from unfair competition and also about protecting consumers. i think that has not been said here yet, but it is a question of the awareness of the specific end consumers of this local production. but what has not been heard here is the question of supporting the international enforcement of this protection. if the european union alone recognizes the value of these traditional crafts and products and protects them, it will be quite a small thing. we need to ensure an international level of protection, and that is why i support the resumption of negotiations on the trips international trade agreement on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights. this is, i think, absolutely crucial for the european union.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications (gis) is a sign used to help consumer identify food products whose qualities or reputation are recognised as unique to their particular country, region or town of origin. this indication allows the czech republic to protect its well-known beers, wines and liqueurs, for example. the registered products then receive an eu high level of recognition and protection. regional artisanal products however, are not covered by the european gi system. the manufacturers thus have to register them in each member states, and adapt to very different national registration procedures. i see the extension of the system to non-agricultural products as logical next step as it will protect manufacturers from unfair competition, boost local production while providing consumers with better information about the origin of the artisanal products they buy. for these reasons, i decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. a geographical indication refers to goods originating in a country, region or place where the quality, reputation or other characteristic of the product is associated with its geographical origin. examples include bordeaux wine, murano glass or parma ham. agricultural products of specific geographical origin, such as cheese, wine, meat, fruit and vegetables, which have certain characteristics or are produced by traditional methods, can be granted pan-european protection of a geographical indication, such as parmesan cheese. non-agricultural products such as ceramics, marble, carpentry, footwear, tapestries or musical instruments are not yet granted uniform protection by geographical indications at eu level beyond national legislation. because i believe that the eu can boast of a wealth of non-agricultural products, whether it be czech crystal or kara marble, and that our unique and diverse heritage must be protected, i voted in favour.
in writing. i supported today's report from the committee on legal affairs (juri) which proposes to extend the protection of geographical indications in the union to non-agricultural products. at present, there is a union regime for the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products which have specific qualities and are produced in a certain established way in well-defined regions. i believe that it is appropriate for a similar union regulation to exist also for non-agricultural products, of which individual member states can certainly offer a great many, and the protection of their labelling by a single union regulation will make the regions more attractive, strengthen the economies of the regions, and may also contribute to higher employment or to the strengthening of tourism. i therefore welcome the fact that this proposal has received a great deal of support not only in the juri committee but also in the european parliament's plenary.
in writing. ‒ in this own initiative report that i supported, the european parliament asks the commission for a legislative proposal with the aim of establishing a single european system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. uniform protection at the eu level would foster both its commercial policy and consumer protection. among other things, it has a potential to foster innovation and the creation of new start-ups, in particular for small enterprises, combat counterfeit or imitation products and ensure more sustainable approach to economic development. the report asks the commission to create a system based on best practices and non-discriminatory principles that would provide for strict control and a two-stage registration procedure. such system should be accompanied by a single standardised and public european register for non-agricultural products benefiting from geographical indication protection.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, the indication of the country, region or place of origin is compulsory only for agricultural products. i therefore supported this initiative by the european parliament to introduce similar rules for non-agricultural products, especially traditional regional products. i am convinced that this will lead to the recognition of their quality and at the same time to their promotion on the european common market.
madam president, i have supported this motion for a resolution which is really intended to help greece in its plight. i admit that i would probably never have voted for mr tsipras, but to help a particular country that is in such serious economic difficulties is a true expression of european solidarity, which we are talking about here in many ways. in my view, the eur 500 million by which the aid should be increased, i.e. the reserves or advances, which are in fact the budgetary impact for this year and for the next, is a relatively small amount of money, given that their provision can indeed, under a clearly defined regulatory framework and in a situation where (and i am somewhat critical of the resolution at the same time) it is also more conditional on the transfer of these funds to the fulfilment of specific domestic tasks by greece, to trigger economic growth. and so that this potential is not wasted again.
in writing. ‒ common provisions on the european structural and investment funds: the special measure for greece is an exceptional measure which aims to provide immediate support to greece by allowing it to access and use the union funds for cohesion policy still available from the 2007-2013 programming period before the end of 2015, and therefore the adoption of this regulation was urgent and i voted in favour of the proposal. this is a measure that should help greece boost its economy, not plunge the country into chaos, as we have been accustomed to in the past. after years of harsh austerity, we have a document that talks about the positive impact of public investment on the economy. it is a pity that this utter banality was not known to european officials and their 'experts' earlier. especially at a time when the whole world was watching the greek economy sink to the bottom and the troika leaders were constantly undermining its foundations. in fact, given the dire situation of greece, there is now a paradoxical situation where greece is unable to pay into the structural funds, but it urgently needs money from them in order for the greek economy to flourish. the measures taken should help greece to overcome this problem.
in writing. - i supported the adjustment of the terms of use of the structural funds for greece because i believe that greece needs our solidarity at a time when it is facing a severe economic crisis. moreover, it is a budget-neutral solution, i.e. it does not involve new eu budget expenditure but works with the funds already allocated to greece in the eu budget. it will be for the commission to ensure that they are used properly. i believe that we must help greece, but at the same time demand that the agreed conditions be fulfilled. the government needs to manage the allocated funds in a very responsible way, and in this way also strengthen confidence in the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report. it proposes amending a regulation, which is an exceptional measure, aimed at providing immediate support to greece by enabling it to access and use before the end of 2015 the eu funding for cohesion policy still available from the 2007-2013 programming period. the regulation to be amended is the regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund and laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund.
in writing. i voted against mrs mihaylov's report because i believe that this is not the way to interfere in ongoing processes. the aid to greece is to be implemented in a completely different way, for example by supporting the investment environment or perhaps by redirecting the implementation of certain european projects, for example in the energy sector.
in writing. ‒ germany, one of the world's richest countries, is demanding an orwellian-sounding fund to address the low competitiveness of german firms caused by an over-inflated welfare state and an over-regulated economy. we cannot but vote against this euro nonsense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the german car manufacturer adam opel ag. due to the financial crisis, car sales in western europe have dropped dramatically. those hardest hit were the manufacturers of small and medium-sized vehicles of the medium-price segment and adam opel ag as a major player in this field suffered particularly hard. sales of opel/vauxhall-branded cars in europe fell by 39 % between 2007 and 2013. nearly 3000 workers were dismissed when the adam opel ag plant in bochum shut down in december 2014. the resulting redundancies negatively impact the local economy in bochum, where the unemployment rate is already far above the german average. under the egf regulation, germany is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 which will help 2,692 redundant workers to find new jobs.
in writing. - belgium, one of the world's richest countries, is demanding an orwellian-sounding fund to repair the low competitiveness of german firms caused by an over-inflated welfare state and an over-regulated economy. we cannot but vote against this euro nonsense.
in writing. ‒ in december 2014, the ford genk car manufacturer’s plant in belgium closed down due to the global economic crisis. that led to a total loss of more than 8 000 jobs, including indirect job losses. belgium applied for a financial contribution which will allow for measures targeting an estimated 4 500 redundant workers. under the european globalisation adjustment fund regulation, belgium will receive eur 6 268 564 from the total costs of eur 10 447 607. i believe it is important to swiftly reintegrate the dismissed workers to the labour market and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ italy, one of the richest countries in the world, is demanding an orwellian-sounding fund to repair the low competitiveness of german firms caused by an over-inflated welfare state and an over-regulated economy. we cannot but vote against this euro nonsense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is in line with the efforts to support workers made redundant due to global economic crisis. the company gruppo alitalia, which provides international air-passenger transport, has been negatively affected by the decline in the eu’s share at the air transport market and a huge increase in the number of passengers carried by gulf and turkish carriers that has occurred at the expense of european companies such as alitalia. following its dismissal of 1 249 workers in 2014, italy applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). it is entitled to eur 1 414 848 that will enable the implementation of measures targeting 184 dismissed workers.
madam president, i have supported the report of my colleague from the group of the european people's party, not only because i consider local authorities to be important, but above all because i believe that these authorities are often much better at implementing the policy objectives of the european union and protecting its values than central governments. it is indeed a manifestation of subsidiarity, decentralisation and even, i would say, a certain principle of proportionality which is reflected in the work of local authorities and which must therefore be supported in their efforts. i think it is essential that the role of local authorities should reflect their budgetary role. because it's often not obvious, but if, for example, the central government's obligations are not met at the level of the country's debt, then the local authorities have very little to do with it. in the czech republic, it is only less than 10 percent, unlike the central government's debt. it is therefore necessary to know that central authorities often manage far worse than local authorities.
in writing. ‒ local authorities, more than any other actors, have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 climate and development challenges. they are frontline players as regards local governance, sustainable territorial development but also conflict prevention. this report highlights their strategic role in promoting the 3 main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental, while calling on the commission to facilitate decentralised cooperation, which is also what i see as the best way to implement the development framework post 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, because i believe that all the incentives that can make development cooperation an effective instrument for helping the various regions of the world and thus contribute to the gradual transformation of these regions into places of decent living for local people must be exploited. focusing on local governments is certainly not the only solution and does not guarantee, for example, the misuse of development aid, but experience not only of ngos shows that support for local governments or specific local people can contribute to the emergence of many useful local initiatives, from the creation of schools or hospitals to programmes to support local tradesmen, farmers, etc. these people can then form the foundations of civil society.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate that this own-initiative report stresses the need for strategic planning in development and i therefore voted in favour of it. it urges the eu to promote decentralised cooperation as a way of implementing the post 2015 development objectives. with this report, the european parliament calls on the commission to consider the possibility of making decentralisation a priority funding sector for its external aid financing instruments and to step up efforts to include local authorities as full stakeholders in the implementation of the 11th european development fund. local authorities should also be given an appropriate part by the member states in their development programmes. among other benefits, the role of local authorities in development has been crucial in relation to achieving the millennium development goals, especially in the fight against poverty and in the delivery of community services.
madam president, i have a procedural proposal. with other colleagues, we have been preparing an oral question to the commission on the best interests of children, and we are asking for this to be a new item on the agenda. i am pointing this out because we have learned today that the norwegian authorities have taken away a child from a czech mother and have put the child up for adoption by norwegian parents. it is horrible. we are angry and we are disappointed. the czech republic is working on this issue, but here in the european parliament we are not able to do anything for the rights of children from the eu. i am asking you, madam president, and my colleagues to support the oral question to the commission for the next plenary.
madam chairman, madam commissioner, the revelations that have surfaced are not defensible. however, i do not think that our aim today can be to condemn the european car industry or to destroy it. on the contrary, i think we must work together to restore consumer confidence so that everyone who owns a car or wants to buy one has accurate information about it. in order to resolve this situation quickly, we need to act immediately, first and foremost, not only the car industry but also us, the european institutions. secondly, we must use a rational approach to calm the tense atmosphere and, last but not least, we must put a clear and objective solution to the problem on the table. i therefore welcome your efforts to create stricter and more precise rules for vehicle emission testing, which take into account the interests of consumers but also the views of the automotive industry. the current rules are clearly outdated and do not correspond to the current situation. i urge you, commissioner, to come forward as soon as possible with a final proposal which will clearly define the procedures for real-world emission testing and include the requirements and performance limits for these tests. the rules in this area must not leave room for more than one interpretation and therefore more than one way of carrying out such tests. i cannot, of course, ignore the control mechanisms which have clearly failed in this area. if we are not able to insist that the rules we are creating here are respected, it will be very difficult to explain to our citizens that we are able to defend their rights and interests.
madam chairman, first of all, i would like to say that this thing did not have to happen. in the czech republic, an invention has been in existence for many years that eliminates 70% of emissions from motor vehicles. it can be applied to any type of vehicle, regardless of age, so that even the old car actually meets the relevant emission standards. but here in the european commission, i'm facing resistance, because i've been trying to put this invention into practice for many years. the second point is that there's clearly a double standard here. how come, when it actually happened that toyota had to change eleven million gears worldwide, nothing happened at all? how come when there was an airbag situation, which was a situation where people could have been killed, nothing happened? in the case of volkswagen, there's a huge scandal and a fine.
madam president, today in the european parliament we are having a difficult debate on the very serious situation of the volkswagen group scandal. any breach by any entity must be investigated with all legal consequences. at this time, there are internal and mainly external investigations, including investigations by the criminal justice authorities. it is in the interest of the volkswagen group to explain everything as plausibly as possible and, above all, it is entirely up to it to regain its lost customer confidence. it is important to follow this process and to await the conclusions of the investigation, including the opinion of the german type-approval authority, which is also supposed to be involved in this, as it is also its responsibility. it is important for us as the european parliament that people in the european market do not lose confidence in effective consumer protection. on the other hand, it's important for us to understand exactly what happened and why. after the examination, it is necessary to consider whether the measurement system is correctly set and whether the acceptance of some extreme, hard regulatory limits does not provoke and encourage circumvention. i believe it would be very unfortunate to jump to conclusions without knowing the facts. we could do a lot of damage to the whole automotive industry, which is not only the engine of the european economy but also the engine of technological progress in many areas.
mr president, we all know that this is an unprecedented scandal which needs to be investigated: that is something that we will agree on. we clearly also know that we will have to have a thorough investigation. there is one under way in germany, and the commission will do its work. we will want to be informed, and we will want to be informed in detail. it is a question that parliament has to be engaged in. we should focus on what was to be implemented, what was to be enforced, what has not been enforced and, of course, how the legislation should eventually be changed. in this respect, madam commissioner, i would have expected you today, or hopefully in the near future, to be somewhat more concrete. we will need to change the system and i think it is worthwhile looking into how exactly to be decisive, and to be very concrete. you have mentioned that you will tell us what you have been doing in the past 10 days. i would wonder what the commission has been doing since the time of the first suspicion, since the first communication and, of course, your communication. in this respect i think that we will want to be informed in detail, and we will look into the papers made available. a final remark – just one sentence: industry, of course, is already affected, and everything that we do we should do in such a way as to minimise that effect.
mr president, first of all i believe that this is quite a serious scandal. unlike the commissioner, i do not think that this scandal is limited to one firm, nor is it a scandal about diesel engines. this is a scandal about the credibility and the reputation of european regulation. for many years, we have accepted the manipulation of the measurement of official consumption – the consumption that is used for the purposes of regulation, for tax authorities and for consumers. we have also known about it from other sources, for example from the mind the gap report that was published in 2013. as a consequence, we were running a higher health risk and we forced consumers to accept higher running costs for their cars. so what should we do about it? first of all, i believe that we should consider introducing a new standard created by the united nations – called the worldwide harmonised light vehicle testing procedure (wltp) – maybe sooner than the end of 2017, at least as an alternative measure of consumption. at the same time, we must be quite sure that there will be no manipulation of the test and that the cars that are used are the same as those being driven by consumers. generally speaking, we should improve regulations and the enforcement of regulations and ensure the consistency of policy. if we opt for regulation – and i do not think we should do this as often as we have done in the past – we should insist on it being complied with and not undermine or question the regulation, except in the case of cheating. lastly, let me mention consistency. if we believe that diesel engines can be more dangerous to health, i am still puzzled as to why we are supporting diesel cars with the low cost of diesel. when i look at the data for many member states, diesel is 20—28% percent cheaper than petrol, and only a few member states have roughly the same prices.
mr president, it is clear that first of all there must be a proper investigation of what happened. i consider it necessary and natural for the automotive industry to cooperate as much as possible with the competent national authorities, to find a technical solution as quickly as possible and to ensure that the customers and the public concerned are informed. in addition to removing the consequences, legislative measures are needed to ensure that the results of the test processes correspond to real driving values, not only for emissions but also for vehicle consumption. the whole case can also have major economic impacts on the entire industry including the supply chain and hard impact on employees. it is therefore essential that it be fairly investigated and that a speedy remedy be negotiated to restore confidence. better regulation means we create legislation that is controllable and enforceable. however, as long as the investment in circumventing standards is more profitable than adhering to them, then we are likely to see a variety of unpleasant surprises in the future, not just in the automotive industry.
in writing. i find the european commission's response to the 'dieselgate' issues to be completely unsatisfactory. we have not been able to find out how the scandal was discovered in the us and not in the eu, nor how long the commission had evidence of the violation. despite all the positive statements by the commission that the current situation needs to be changed, that customer confidence needs to be restored and that similar things should not happen again, no concrete steps were presented to follow. an independent union-wide investigation has not yet been launched to confirm or refute the assumption that this is not an isolated case. the transition to a new real-world testing system, which takes into account not just laboratory data but real driving conditions, as parliament has long called for, is desperately slow. no guarantees were given that employees who are not responsible for the decisions of volkswagen's managers would not lose their jobs as a result of the planned cuts. it is also unclear how the company will stand up to green subsidies and tax breaks in the eu and the us. i therefore call on the commission to reconsider its current lax and toothless approach, as the case itself is damaging not only european consumers but also the eu's position as a leader in the fight against climate change at the upcoming cop 21 in paris, as well as its potential to weaken the eu's negotiating position in the case of the ttip negotiations.
mr president, we are all aware that many refugees from libya make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean and very often find only death. that's a sad ending, but not the beginning of the problem. the current situation is that libya has been in chaos for several years. it is therefore necessary to reach political and diplomatic agreement as soon as possible on how to help libya to get back on its feet as quickly as possible and to enable its institutions to enforce law and order in the country. however, this is a difficult task given that the us and other nato countries have been involved in the dismantling of the original ruling structure in the country and continue to intervene domestically in the country. however, the effects of the war conflict, poor post-war reconstruction and the rather complicated stratification of the country make the country's stabilisation seem out of reach. the european union should therefore step up its diplomatic and humanitarian efforts in libya. now that we've shared in the bad state this country is in today, we could admit our guilt and work diligently to fix it.
mr. president, thank you for your excellent czech, among other things. i would like to point out that the european union is indeed a leader in the field of abolition of the death penalty and in this respect its efforts should be appreciated. so far, no scientific arguments have been presented to suggest that the death penalty has any deterrent effect on people who commit heinous crimes. there was no deterrent effect. there's no increase in these capital crimes anywhere, if the death penalty has been abolished, that's, i think, very important to say here. i would like the european union to continue its efforts from a moratorium to the total abolition of the death penalty will be a very long journey . however, where it fails, that is, if there are still states that will carry out the death penalty, then i think we should insist on some minimum standards. first, the death penalty can only be imposed for intentional and violent crimes, never retroactively, always only to persons over the age of 18, never to pregnant women, mothers of newborns and mentally ill persons. of course, they must be based on convincing evidence. a sentenced person should also have the right to appeal or request a change of sentence at any time after the sentence has been imposed. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the fact that slovak prime minister fico wrote a book in 1998 entitled 'the death penalty'. i would recommend that he look at it again, because what it describes suggests so much to refugees and he would do well to think about it.
mr. chairman, during the tenure of the so-called moderate iranian leader rouhani, over two thousand people were hanged. according to amnesty international, 700 people were executed in the first half of this year alone, and the number is expected to exceed 1,000 by the end of the year. it's the highest number of executions per capita in the world. at the end of the week, president schulz will fly to tehran. mr president schulz, i ask you, as the representative of europe, not to forget human rights when you are negotiating the nuclear deal with iran.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, as i said, we are discussing today an amendment to the so-called european small claims procedure. the procedure is designed as an alternative to ordinary litigation under the code of civil procedure. it aims in particular to help consumers to exercise their rights in cross-border disputes and to improve access to legal protection for smes in the recovery of small claims. the amendment to the regulation aims to remove some of the problems which the procedure has faced since its inception in 2009, namely: first, the setting of a limit on court fees, the amount of which has often discouraged consumers from using the procedure; second, the limit of eur 2 000 for small and medium-sized enterprises to amend, as only a small percentage of their cross-border claims have reached that limit. the outcome of the trialogue represents, in my view, a balanced compromise that responds to the practical needs of the parties and facilitates effective access to justice for consumers and smes. i thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat of our committee for the work they have done and i support the motion.
madam president, i am very pleased that the trilogue has managed to reach a text on which we will vote tomorrow. first of all, let me thank all my colleagues in the juri committee who have contributed to this result, in particular the rapporteur. i think that small claims procedures are an example of legislation which is not at first sight attractive to the general public, but which can be very valid for that public and can therefore contribute to a more positive perception of the european union and of eu legislation. citizens rightly expect legislation that reflects current realities, whether it is simplification and acceleration of proceedings by means of electronic communication or a tool to achieve justice even in cases with a cross-border element. i believe that the proposed compromise on the amount of the limit on claims is necessary, since in some member states, at least for natural persons, the amount of eur 10 000 cannot really be identified with a small claim, however much the terminology may be used. this reality also needs to be reflected in legislation. the proposal already envisages, in its present form, the possibility of adjusting the limit of eur 5 000 in the future. i hope that we will discuss any future amendments in the same constructive spirit as the current text, for which i thank you.
madam president, the european parliament and national legislatures have been working for a long time to limit the emissions of harmful substances from large sources above 50 mw and have achieved great success. today we are at the limit of the technical possibilities for further reduction. so i'm glad we've turned our attention to resources below 50 megawatts, where there are certainly large reserves. i think that the demand for reductions in sulphur emissions may have gone too far, since these limits may have a counterproductive effect in some countries. the closure of small boilers, for example, may lead to the development of local coal-fired heating, which is much more difficult to control and where emissions are higher, but i will nevertheless support the proposal for a directive. however, i think we need to look at local fireplaces in the future. in our region, moravia-silesia, a significant part of the pollution is caused by local waste-to-energy plants, not only from our region but also from the polish border. emissions reductions must be the concern of all, large and small, and of all the countries of the european union. let's be fair, let's treat each other fairly, and let's all cut back as we're supposed to.
madam president, as individual measurements in the border areas of the member states show, some areas suffer from significant air pollution. pollution from one country is thus carried to another, with many countries having different exemptions for small sources. trying to solve this resource-scarcity problem is certainly important. of course, it's complicated to rationally influence smaller resources. but at the same time, limiting emissions from a large number of these sources over a large area is a real problem. to achieve real results in reducing air pollution, the issue needs to be approached in a comprehensive way, so that it is not just an administrative regulation, but that the incentives, including the necessary education, accompany each step. this should stimulate the interest in modernising these sources, whether by promoting innovation or, for example, research into modern energy sources meeting the required stricter limits.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for supporting our initiative to discuss this issue in plenary. because this is not the time to see the world in black and white. innocent people died. people who have dedicated their lives to caring for others and fulfilling their mission in one of the most dangerous countries in the world have died. instead of recognition and support, however, they received more than an hour of bombing that leveled the only medical facility in the area. it also ended the lives of the most vulnerable and those who cared for them. an attack on a medical facility, staff or patients can only be described as a heinous crime. this is recognized by international law, but it was brutally trampled on saturday morning. instead of apologies, we now hear excuses, and cynicism is replaced by lies. it is necessary to ensure that, after expressing our deepest condolences to the survivors, we as an international community insist on a thorough and completely independent investigation. that should unravel what happened and point to the real culprits, not the scapegoats. only then will we make it clear that international law applies equally to all. it is impossible to measure with double standards, especially when it comes to such barbaric acts that violate humanitarian law. accepting an apology is unthinkable, and it doesn't change the fact that the perpetrator is a state that tries to pose as the protector of democracy and civilization. if we accept that innocent patients can burn in their beds and no one takes responsibility and no one is punished, then we didn't have to create international law. thank you for your attention, and allow me to express my sincere condolences to all the survivors and the entire organization. and i would ask you, mr president, to observe a minute's silence here in the european parliament in memory of the people who have died.
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, let me ask you, if you are clearly saying that putin and assad are not the solution in this region, who do you think is the solution? because russian planes are the only ones fighting in syria in accordance with international law, the only ones who have asked the legitimate governments if they can fight at all. the western coalition never asked for this consent and has always acted only from the position of arrogant power. so who is the solution in syria, if not the legitimately elected current president, in your opinion?
madam president, while i am pleased that the european parliament is dealing with such important issues as syria and libya, i would much rather see very concrete proposals to deal with the crisis in those countries. the european union should certainly step up its diplomatic and humanitarian efforts in syria, but let us not forget that the middle east problem must be solved in the middle east. we must not again pretend to be the messiah of the region, who knows much better than the governments operating there what the region needs. how often have we seen, recently, how outside intervention, especially by the united states, has destabilised entire regions? if we know anything about this area, it's that it has a long memory and it doesn't forget the humiliation it suffered. but if we act as diplomats and humanitarians in the region, then we can help stabilize the situation and improve our reputation.
madam president, turkey is in a difficult situation, it is there before the elections, so that is why the situation is tense. separatists have been active, pkk terrorists have been active, who want to undermine the territorial integrity of turkey. beyond the borders of turkey, a nato member country, russia is operating and this can lead to various, today unpredictable consequences, conflicts and provocations. last but not least, there is the wave of refugees, and i remind you that turkey is holding two million syrian refugees on its territory who would otherwise have been on their way to europe long ago. i believe that we must work closely with turkey, that we must respect the democratic electoral process in turkey, that we must show turkey that we respect its territorial integrity and stand up to separatist forces. we must also support it in the event of a military provocation by russia, and we must help turkey to cope with the refugee wave, because otherwise we in europe will have to deal with this refugee wave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s calendar of part-sessions for 2017 which organises the work of the european parliament for 2017
in writing. i consider the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes to be a rather good document and i was therefore happy to support it. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of tunisia to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol is a measure of economic, financial and technical cooperation which allows union assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be obtained under those union programmes. the attack on british tourists has unfortunately undermined tunisia's image as a major tourist destination. tunisia, like other countries in the region, is dealing with the so-called islamic state, and i am very pleased that the european union is trying to support the country economically so that it does not go to any extremes. we don't have to agree with everything the tunisian government is doing, but we need to support more stable beacons in such a turbulent region and not repeat the mistakes of the past.
in writing. ‒ tunisia will have to pay contributions in order to participate in the inefficient system of subsidies and european redistribution. this redistribution is hurting our economy and it's going to hurt the tunisian economy. i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i support parliament’s vote on the participation of tunisia in the union’s programmes. tunisia has become the model country for the arab spring; it successfully passed through the test that much of the rest of the region is still trying to figure out. it has great potential to create another pillar of stability in a region that desperately needs it. however, in recent years the economy in tunisia has shown signs of deterioration and i believe that we need to do something to combat this. that is why i support tunisia becoming a priority for the eu and including it in certain european union programmes including, but not limited to, those involving general, university education, and youth programmes. if we can help bolster tunisia, we can have another ally in the region, and we can show that the region has the ability to succeed.
in writing. i was very happy to support the protocol on the participation of tunisia in union programmes. the events of the arab spring have shaped the political direction not only of tunisia but also of other countries in north africa and the middle east. the economic and social developments strongly influence whether tunisia's transition to democracy is successful. it is therefore essential that cooperation between the european union and tunisia is at an excellent level, in particular in this area. the recovery of tunisia's economy from recession may lead to an improvement in its political situation. in addition, cooperation at the level of education, for example through the erasmus+ programme, can offer unique opportunities to citizens of both the union and tunisia. i am convinced that the european union and tunisia will benefit from cooperation in the best possible way.
in writing. ‒ i believe that tunisia needs eu support in its transition to democracy and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling tunisia to participate in certain eu programmes. it allows for access to assistance, in particular financial, to be provided by the eu. the success of democracy in tunisia is to a large extent dependent on its economic and social development. however, over the last years, the tunisian economy has markedly deteriorated, especially concerning its trade with europe. in order to support the establishment of democracy in tunisia, the eu should make concrete economic and investment commitments, which is an initiative endorsed by the protocol.
mr president, i would like to explain why i supported the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. i consider this a positive step in protecting consumers and small businesses in the european union. it's about measures that are tangible and i think the public will appreciate. cross-border claims or recovery is a necessity, especially with regard to online shopping. a typical example would be the attempt to obtain a refund for defective or undelivered goods purchased online from a supplier in another country. i think the problem is that so far, very few people are familiar with this possibility. the competent courts should take some action in this area. people may be afraid to go directly to court, although this procedure is less complex and does not have high fees. i am pleased that the ceiling has been increased from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000 in the form approved, although i would not recommend any further substantial increase. i also agree that the legislation adopted does not extend the scope to labour disputes.
mr president, i also want to explain my vote on this matter, because i supported the report. in my view, it is really important to think of enforcement as a whole, a set of standards where an individual has a right to access to justice. the problem is that the simplified judicial procedure which this proposal actually brings has its pitfalls. it should be effectively circumscribed and i consider the limit of eur 5 000 to be the maximum when the procedure before the court is actually conducted in a simplified manner. it is important that citizens are aware of this possibility and exercise their right of access to justice, but also that they are aware of the consequences of taking such legal action. i think that the division of the costs of litigation is a good thing, but i think that the emphasis should also be on mediation and the prevention of such disputes. i don't think that's been in this report yet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report regarding the regulation establishing a european small claims procedure because it is in my view an indispensable tool for building a single market for small and medium enterprises. the measures proposed will result in considerable savings for european businesses and consumers.
in writing. on 7 october 2015, we voted in strasbourg on the report on the draft regulation amending the regulation establishing the so-called european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. it should be noted that the european small claims procedure is an increasingly used alternative to ordinary civil litigation. it was introduced in particular to help consumers to exercise their rights in crossborder disputes. after five years of application of the original regulation, the european small claims procedure has proved to be a useful and necessary tool. however, during that period, certain problems with this adjustment became apparent. the amendment aims to remove some of the problems that the procedure has faced since its inception, namely to set a limit on court fees, the excessive amount of which has discouraged consumers from using this type of procedure, and to adjust the limit of eur 2 000 for smes, which has been very restrictive to them because only a small percentage of their cross-border claims have been covered. i voted in favour of the report because the outcome of the trilogue is a fairly balanced compromise which will hopefully facilitate access to justice for consumers and smes alike. moreover, the final text is of far better quality than the text originally issued by the committee.
in writing. ‒ the small claims procedure is an alternative to the civil procedure which has been in place since 2009. today we discussed its amendment, which is intended to respond in particular to the needs of consumers and smes, who were discouraged by too high court fees and, conversely, by too low a limit by which small and medium-sized claims are defined. those amendments should allow in particular smes to recover more of their claims through proceedings. i consider the text presented to be a balanced compromise, the result of a well-done work in the trilogue, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at first reading, which significantly improves the current legislation in force since 2009. in my view, this amendment will lead to greater use of the small claims procedure, as consumers will no longer be deterred by excessive court fees, which often exceed the amount recovered, and small and medium-sized enterprises will not be constrained by the current limit of eur 2 000, which many of their crossborder claims do not fit, thanks to the agreed increase to eur 5 000. i see the small claims procedure as an example of useful eu legislation that has been shown to make life easier for citizens and businesses when they are involved in a dispute with a cross-border dimension.
in writing. i supported the proposal to revise the regulation establishing the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment, as its measures aim to increase consumer confidence in purchasing products from other eu countries, while at the same time making it easier for small firms to do business across borders. the new legislation is designed to address the current shortcomings by more than doubling the amount that can be claimed in the context of claims, up to eur 5 000. the proposal should also significantly reduce and simplify the entire procedure for small claims, whereby it will no longer be necessary to travel in person to another member state for the procedure. the proposal also calls for, inter alia, greater proportionality in court fees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 creating a european order for payment procedure. importantly, it is to be amended in scope, so that it will apply to civil and commercial matters where the value of a claim is up to eur 10 000 if pursued against a legal person, or less than eur 5 000 if pursued against a natural person. changes will also be made to the procedure, so that [, where the application is dismissed,] the court which ruled on the substance of the claim is to inform the claimant of such dismissal and of the possible means of appealing against the decision taken.
in writing. ‒ i fully support any simplification of doing business in the european market, especially for smes. the rate of use of small claims courts, so-called cross-border claims, has been rarely or never dealt with by small enterprises in the past. the reason was the high cost, the language barrier and the extremely difficult access to courts in another member state. i am glad to see that many of these barriers will be removed in the future.
mr president, i shall be brief on this point. i supported the proposal, but i was rather ambivalent in my position. i think that the european union should first of all put things right in the area of air protection, the environment, which is very important to us today. and that's the volkswagen case and the emissions manipulation. i think we should only start the next stage of work once we know how the standards of european law on air pollution are actually being met in the existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that improving air quality in europe is important. however, i do not agree with the european commission coming up with new legislation in this area, which will result in an additional burden for our entrepreneurs. i am also against the compulsory european registration system for all new factories.
in writing. i supported the report on the directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air, which fills a gap in eu law and introduces emission controls for medium combustion plants such as boilers in apartment buildings and public buildings. while achieving the targets will not be easy and will cost some countries considerable effort, i believe that this is the right path and at the same time an opportunity to ensure a healthier environment, to increase health protection for the european population and to invest in modern and clean technologies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has today approved legislation to further reduce emissions. there are currently two directives setting limits for small and large combustion plants, which have now been supplemented by emission limits for medium-sized plants (combined plants with a total rated thermal input of 1 mw or more but less than 50 mw). improving air quality is one of the long-term priorities of the social democrats, and further emission reductions are a key prerequisite. i too have long supported legislation in favour of strict emission limits, but it can only be effective if it affects all producers and not just some of them. the gap between small and large producers therefore needed to be filled and i'm glad that it finally happened today. i also see today's decision as a strong signal of the eu's clear priorities on air protection ahead of the upcoming climate summit in paris.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report with the view to fill a legislation gap in which emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are generally not yet regulated at the eu level. the directive proposal is designed to reduce pollution by nox, so2 and dust by setting limit values for new and existing installations, together with a simple registration scheme, in order to help deliver a significant part of member states’ emission reduction obligations and avoid possible trade-offs between air quality and increased biomass use, which may result in higher air pollution. the directive should apply to combinations formed by two or more combustion plants having a total rated thermal input equal to or greater than 1 mw and less than 50 mw, unless the combination is a combustion plant covered by chapter iii of directive 2010/75/eu on industrial emissions.
in writing. - i supported this report. as shown by individual measurements in the border areas of the member states, some areas suffer from significant air pollution. pollution from one country thus ends up in another country, often with different national exemptions. trying to solve this resource-scarcity problem is certainly important. of course, it's complicated to rationally influence small resources. but at the same time, limiting emissions from a large number of these sources over a large area is a real problem. to achieve real results in reducing air pollution, the issue needs to be approached in a comprehensive way, so that it is not just an administrative regulation, but that the incentives, including the necessary education, accompany each step. there is also a need to stimulate interest in modernising these sources, whether by promoting innovation or, for example, research into modern energy sources meeting the required stricter limits.
in writing. ‒ as i said a few weeks ago in the debate on food origin labelling, i fully support the idea of introducing common pan-european requirements for transparent food labelling. these measures are one of the key factors in protecting the health of our population. the proposal aims in particular to ensure that consumers are properly informed about the food they consume. although it is not expected that caseins and caseinates will be sold to the final consumer but only between food business operators, it is still important that food business operators have at their disposal the information they need to label the final products, in particular as regards allergens. if the mandatory information referred to in the directive is not provided on the packaging, these products cannot be placed on the market at all. proper labelling of caseins and caseinates will enable consumers, and in particular those suffering from food allergies or intolerances, to make informed choices. given that we have had a number of serious scandals in the czech republic in recent years over the quality, composition and origin of the food sold there, and i believe that we are not alone in the pan-european context, i intend to fully support this proposal and any other efforts which, by helping to improve consumer information, will ultimately also lead to an improvement in the quality of what we eat.
in writing. ‒ i agree that it is important for the health and well-being of consumers that they know what they are consuming. however, i do not agree with this proposal because the member states are perfectly capable of dealing with this matter themselves. there is no reason for the european union to be concerned. i'm against the new european legislation.
in writing. ‒ caseins and caseinates are lactoproteins that are sold from businesses to businesses for the preparation of food products. the proposal for a directive seeks alignment of the compositional requirements for edible caseins to the codex alimentarius, which would help ensure a level playing field for food businesses on the world market. it also sets out labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates which will enable consumers, and particularly those suffering from a food allergy or intolerance, to make informed choices. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. on 7 october 2015, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the report on the draft regulation amending the regulation laying down the financial rules for the general budget of the eu. this is a very technical innovation which had to be implemented in particular to make access to eu funds easier, more reliable, more efficient and at the same time to prevent misuse of these funds. in addition, it was also necessary to adapt this regulation to the new eu directives on public procurement and on the award of concessions by the authorities. i rather see the changes made positively, as they generally simplify the procedures and rules concerning the eligibility and non-eligibility criteria for eu concession contracts. in particular, i see positively that the criteria for excluding a participant from eu bodies' procurement procedures include past tax fraud, tax evasion, including tax evasion through tax-exempt offshore structures or misappropriation of public funds. the report goes into such detail that it addresses and distinguishes between different types of 'conflict of interest' and serious professional misconduct by officials or representatives of eu institutions. given these positive changes, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the parts of the text that deal with the transparency of eu finances. however, i am against those parts which impose on contractors the commission's views on labour or environmental law. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the report on the financial rules for the general budget of the union, which i believe brings a higher legal quality. i would like to highlight in particular the inclusion of fraud, tax fraud, tax evasion including tax evasion through tax-exempt offshore structures, misuse of corporate assets and embezzlement of public funds among the grounds for exclusion from the procurement procedures of the union institutions. i see this as one of the proofs that the eu is serious about its fight against tax fraud and evasion and against the grey economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal aims at aligning the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts awarded by the european institutions on their own account. the european parliament made several changes to the original proposal, recommending for example that the estimated value of a contract may not be determined with a view to circumventing the applicable rules, nor may a contract be split up for that purpose. it also agreed that tax fraud and tax evasion should be integrated in the criteria for exclusion from participation in procurement procedures of eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and i am clearly in favour of changes to the eu budget rules. i consider that improvements in the internal and external controls of eu budget money are particularly important. very often we see inefficient management of eu funds, not only in the member states but also in the european agencies and the institutions themselves. i therefore believe that this report by ingeborg gräßle will lead to a substantial improvement.
madam president, i would first like to express my disappointment at the actual impact of the european commission's plan for the integration of capital markets. i don't think it's working out yet. the access of european businesses to credit, to access to finance, to higher growth and development, i think is still only on paper, and the facilitation of business financing conditions is actually lagging behind our expectations. i would ask the european commission to add to this effort to remove as much of the administrative and difficulty involved in enabling european businesses to grow, to take as an example how the financing of good projects, good businesses, works with our partners in the usa. in this sense, i would say that the european commission will have my support and certainly not only mine.
madam president, i would like to support this proposal from the european commission. for me, it fits in with the other proposals we have discussed here today and in the previous days. it is undoubtedly a european order for payment, which aims to facilitate the enforcement of law in cross-border disputes. this is undoubtedly the same as the previous point concerning capital markets. and on that point, i would like to highlight the really greater security that european consumers will get. i think that is a value worth fighting for and one for which i welcome this initiative by the european commission. maximum ceilings on cost reduction, as far as payments are concerned, and generally the creation of a single type of payment is something i think we should support regardless of political affiliation. i accept this responsibility and i very much welcome this initiative by the european commission.
mr president, i must confess that i only took the floor after our colleague, mr ujhelyi, had spoken. it is always important to me that a particular problem is discussed from a european point of view, from a european standpoint. and when such a debate turns into a barrage of national positions, i think it is always a weakening of the european view. yesterday, there was a similar case in spain. i would also like to highlight what i think is possible to underline and highlight in this activity. one of those circumstances is the sense of cooperation among the hungarian people, their degree of solidarity. these are, i think, values that can be taken as lessons and as the impact of the whole activity. and that is why i would prefer that the hungarian government respond more favourably to the demand for european solidarity in the context of the refugee crisis.
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of my colleague commissioner elżbieta bieńkowska, i am here to discuss this issue. the issue raised by the honourable members touches at the heart of what eu citizens can expect of the single market. when shopping cross-border, our consumers are still being discriminated against on the basis of their nationality or place of residence. this is not acceptable. we keep on receiving complaints from citizens against alleged discriminatory practices, through various channels. first, direct complaints; second, complaints to european consumer centres; third, information requests to your europe advice; and, fourth and most importantly, parliamentary questions. as democratically elected representatives, you act as a major interface between citizens and eu institutions. i cannot encourage you strongly enough to keep on sending us feedback from your constituents. with the rise of the internet, e-commerce is getting increasingly important, but many questions also concern transactions taking place on commercial premises. online geo-blocking is one of the most visible and the most often described types of discrimination, with consumers being barred from completing transactions, or being redirected to another website offering the same service but at a higher price. discrimination also takes place on a daily basis for millions of europeans travelling abroad as tourists, buying a second home in another country, or just crossing the border. this must stop – and action has been announced in the digital single market strategy. the need for action will be expanded on in the internal market strategy for goods and services, to be adopted at the end of the month. on 24 september 2015, the commission also launched a public consultation. the consultation will help the commission prepare a legislative initiative in 2016. we all know examples of discriminatory practices. last year, we initiated an action with the main car rental companies in europe, after noticing very substantial price differences for exactly the same service, just depending on the place of residence of the customer. this year, you will have heard of press reports concerning a major amusement park in france, for which some special offers were limited to french residents. we also have examples of people being denied access to car-sharing with a non-national driving licence, or for the need to have a national registration number to buy a service. the current legal framework has not created enough certainty for businesses and consumers. it has not enabled national authorities to enforce the non-discrimination obligation in daily practice. this is what we are planning to address. contractual freedom is an important principle, which must be preserved, but we must also tackle the voluntary segmentation of the single market by companies, and we must safeguard the rights of consumers. the interests of smes must also be protected. we want to encourage companies and consumers to use the single market, not force them to do so if it would be too burdensome or uncertain for them. my colleagues elżbieta bieńkowska and günther öttinger will be more than happy to discuss those challenges further in order to find solutions that open up the single market for companies and consumers alike.
for the s&d group. mr president, discrimination against consumers on the grounds of their nationality or place of residence is unfortunately still a daily reality in the internal market of the european union. it is therefore absolutely necessary to specify the legal framework for the prohibition of discrimination in the area of both services and goods. the clarification of the so-called objective criteria is essential. the conditions which are acceptable for restricting access to goods and services in exceptional circumstances must be clearly defined. it is also important to strengthen the cooperation of the supervisory authorities in order to address all possible forms of discrimination in a consistent and coordinated manner and to make full use of the powers of the consumer protection cooperation network. however, it should be borne in mind that not only is the removal of geoblocking one of the biggest challenges in creating a digital internal market, but consumers also face discrimination in the offline environment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i therefore invite the commission to take these comments into account in the planned revision of the consumer protection cooperation regulation.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i am glad the commission is fighting on this issue. the alde group is looking forward to addressing this in a geo-blocking regulation complementing the services and e-commerce directives. consumers across europe face two huge barriers when trying to shop across borders: either they are denied delivery completely or delivery costs are so high that there can be no justifiable reason for them other than to prevent sales. if goods and content cannot cross borders, europeans will not shop across borders. they will forever be locked within their national markets and subject to higher prices due to a lack of full and honest competition. commissioner, when combined with different prices based on location, there can be no doubt that this is a case of discrimination by companies, based if not on nationality then on place of residence – discrimination if not because i am czech then because i live in prague. some small businesses have said that it is not discrimination, but that they simply cannot handle the problems associated with language and returns. maybe they are right and we need to do more on those problems, as is provided for in the strategy. but, commissioner, on what grounds can a giant company justify this denial of service? normally i am against overregulating businesses. i honestly believe that most businesses want to do right by their customers and thereby attract more customers, but this is clearly a case where we must act to stop this illegal price discrimination and segmenting of the market. this is pure price discrimination and it should not be acceptable in the digital single market.
madam president, the developments in thailand in recent years are certainly not favourable, but they do not seem to merit a clear condemnation either. there are signs that the situation there is improving. proof of that is the lifting of the curfew this spring. the truth is, however, that the current government retains a number of extraordinary powers even after martial law is lifted. as an example, arbitrary and so-called security detention, in 2014 the human rights organization lists three hundred people who were put in it. it is these powers that i believe should be monitored, bearing in mind the complexity of the situation there and drawing attention to cases where these rights are being infringed. in my opinion, we should not be satisfied with the promise that the return of civil rights will be linked to the adoption of a new constitution, but on the contrary, we should demand that the range of rights actually respected by the thai authorities be gradually expanded already now.
author. madam president, commissioner, this resolution is drawing attention to another case of human rights violations by one of our trading partners, saudi arabia. it's good to have good economic relations with saudi arabia and good political relations, but it's also important to be aware of what's going on in this country. in the case of ali muhammad an-nimr, the universal declaration of human rights, the un convention on the rights of the child, and the arab charter of human rights itself are not taken into account. the conviction of ali muhammad an-nimr is therefore against all our values and we must fight for it to be lifted immediately. since 2014, saudi arabia has seen a rise in the number of death sentences, and this cannot be ignored by the european and international community.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, on behalf of the ppe group. it's not even a punishment, because the punishment in the 21st century cannot be to have someone's head cut off and their body hung on a cross to rot. this is, in short, a clear judicial murder for someone expressing his political views, wanting freedom of speech in his country, and also for being a shiite and that his uncle, as already mentioned, is an influential opponent of the regime there. it is not possible, in my view, to see saudi arabia as an equal partner, to turn a blind eye and not say clearly that today, unfortunately, the number of executions in saudi arabia is increasing. it should be said that this year there are already one hundred and two executions, the number is higher and higher, and mainly children and foreigners are executed without any guarantee of a proper and fair trial. today, saudi arabia has the third highest execution rate in the world. we need to condemn it and put pressure on it.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, it has been said that saudi arabia is an important country in the middle east. we share the same objectives in the peace process, and it is in both of our interests to work together on a number of issues. it is sad that the human rights record of saudi arabia is a tragic one, and here we are facing yet another example of this. i appreciate what president hollande said. he made a very strong statement on behalf of his country, which has traditionally strong ties with saudi arabia. he made a very strong statement to saudi arabia. what is missing is a statement and a clear-cut position from ms mogherini. we should all agree that this is an area in which we expect ms mogherini to take a strong line. we should also agree that if this record continues there should be a strong eu reaction, irrespective of common issues that we have traditionally shared.
mr president, i too would like to say that i have supported this motion for a resolution, this report by mr tajani. the creation of a single market for payments, electronic transactions, consumer protection financial literacy in general, i think all the values i am talking about here are important and have meaning for the specific users of these products and services. i supported this draft report because i see the vital importance of creating a single secure environment for such payments. in general, i think this report fits into the framework that we've been discussing here on other days, whether it's electronic money orders or capital market integration, these are all financial instruments that consumers need to be familiar with. we should inform them, and these uniform integrated procedures should make it easier for them to work with these tools.
in writing. i voted against this supplementary report, which further regulates something which goes against the freedom of contract and should therefore be left to the contractual freedom of the trading partners, e.g. article 62. furthermore, i am also opposed to article 104 empowering the commission to adopt implementing acts. full harmonisation as referred to in article 107 corresponds more to a regulation than to a directive.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the revised eu rules on payment services. the cost of paying the bill should be reduced by enabling new firms in the market to use mobile and online tools to make payments on behalf of the customer. the new rules also aim to secure electronic payments by setting data protection and liability standards for all electronic payment service providers. the bank managing the payer's account will only be able to prevent the third party service provider from accessing it on the basis of objectively justified and substantiated security reasons notified to the supervisory authorities. this safeguard measure should prevent the possibility of 'blocking' the market for new payment services in any way. the payments should be much more secure, which is why i supported the motion.
in writing. i supported the report on payment services in the internal market, which is the result of a long negotiation between the ep and the council containing a number of complex technical details. the resulting consistency ensures a level playing field between all categories of payment service providers, while at the same time giving retailers greater choice of means of payment and increasing their security and transparency. i also welcome the facilitation of the cross-border provision of innovative payment services for card, internet and mobile payments.
in writing. the functioning of the internal market requires that consumers be able to make electronic payments without any problems. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the supplementary report to the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market. this adjustment is undoubtedly appropriate in an era of increasing transactions via the internet and mobile applications. i also voted in favour of requiring financial institutions providing electronic payment services to take out professional indemnity insurance or a similar guarantee for the protection of consumers in the territory where they offer services and of the eba being responsible for drawing up and subsequently reviewing guidelines setting out the minimum monetary amount of such indemnity insurance. i also voted in favour of the creation of a public online register of financial institutions authorised to provide electronic payments, which should ensure greater transparency in the field of payment intermediaries. because i believe in the importance of preventing any kind of financial fraud, i also voted to allow the processing of personal data by payment systems. however, this does not change the fact that personal data must be respected and must not be processed or stored without the consent of users for purposes other than fraud investigation and detection. i believe that a more efficient and secure electronic payment system will support further growth in the european economy.
in writing. i supported the revision of the internal market payment services directive, as it contains a number of measures to strengthen the security and transparency of payment services for consumers. this is particularly important in the current trend of the development of new types of payment options, such as mobile and internet payments, and the increasing number of providers of these services. payment security and the protection of personal data are essential for consumer confidence in digital payment technology.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to generate efficiencies in the payment system and lead to more choice and more transparency of payment services, and i voted in favour of it. it calls for directive 2007/64/ec to be repealed because, since its adoption, the retail payments market has experienced significant technical innovation, which challenges the current framework. the report stresses that the continued development of an integrated internal market for safe electronic payments is crucial in order to support the growth of the eu economy and ensure that consumers and businesses enjoy choice and transparency of payment services, so as to benefit fully from the internal market.
mr. chairman, i confess i did not support this report. the reason is quite prosaic. in my view, it is always harmful to transfer national problems, national political disputes, to the european level without having any practical impact on the search for a common european position. i am of course sympathetic and express solidarity with the 600 000 people who have come to spain as a result of the actions of the banks and the handling of the housing mortgages. i see the contradictions that exist in the area of preferential shares, but i also see the positive government of the spanish prime minister, who has tried to correct these shortcomings that arose under the previous socialist governments. that is why i could not support this proposal, which in my view was not consensual.
in writing. the resolution calls on the commission to decide which financial houses to blacklist, to harmonise mortgage contracts, to publish propaganda on financial products and to propose legislation on 'family insolvency'. i had to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which i supported, draws attention to thousands of tragic personal cases in which citizens have experienced evictions and the loss of their life savings – particularly in spain – due to abusive terms in mortgage contracts and a lack of protection for borrowers. some of these abusive clauses have been identified by national and european courts. it is estimated that over the past few years 700 000 spanish citizens have been victims of financial fraud because they were sold risky financial instruments without being duly informed of the implications. the resolution calls on the commission to monitor the implementation in all member states of the ruling in case c-415 (aziz) and of directive 93/13/eec on mortgage legislation, in order to guarantee full compliance by national authorities. at the same time, it appeals to financial entities across the eu to stop engaging in abusive behaviour towards clients in the field of mortgages, sophisticated financial products and credit cards.
mr president, the countries of the european union have committed themselves to the abolition of the death penalty. it is a european value, but it is based on the general principle of the inviolability of human life. the most serious crimes should be punishable by life imprisonment. in 2014 alone, 2,466 people were executed, most of them in china. the resolution i signed and supported was not because i was in favour of exporting european values to the world, but because the death penalty is abused. it is used to settle scores with political opponents or to persecute people for religious reasons and other sexual orientations. i think that is unacceptable and that is why i am glad that the european parliament has adopted this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the death penalty, which calls for its abolition on a global scale and points out not only its ineffectiveness but also its incompatibility with values such as the protection of human rights. i welcome the fact that the resolution mentions the countries which apply the death penalty, and i could imagine even stronger rhetoric in this regard. in many countries, the death penalty is associated with a trampling on basic human rights, and this is a state of affairs that we as europeans should never accept. i therefore hope that the eu will persevere and be even more decisive and consistent in its fight against the death penalty, for example by using development policy instruments.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of my own convictions and with regard to article 6 of the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms of the czech republic and article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, i naturally voted today for a european parliament resolution re-condemning the death penalty and calling on the countries concerned to introduce a un moratorium as a step towards abolishing this sanction. i welcome the council's assurance that the issue of the death penalty is also relevant in the dialogue with our partners, such as the us and japan, regardless of the eu's strategic objectives. 32 of the 50 states in the u.s. still have absolute punishment. in 2014, 72 were sentenced and 35 executed. thousands are waiting in death row, with a recent stanford university study showing up to 4% wrong. it's worth noting that this is the same country with which we are about to conclude the largest trade agreement in history. i do not agree with the arguments of colleagues who try to justify the death penalty in selected countries by classifying and comparing the crimes of different legal or illegal systems. the two-meter is absolutely unacceptable in this matter. mr schmit today quoted pope francis' message to the us congress: 'just and necessary punishment must never exclude the dimension of hope and rehabilitation'. i don't agree with the church on a lot of things, but i can't disagree with this.
in writing. the resolution was adopted by the european parliament on the occasion of the world day against the death penalty, which falls on 10 october each year. the complete abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of eu human rights policy. it is a sad fact that despite the growing number of countries abolishing the death penalty, the number of death sentences is increasing, as are some extremely brutal techniques or 'crimes' that are subject to the death penalty, such as homosexual relations. in many countries, the death penalty is imposed on minors or mentally disabled persons. this year's anti-death penalty day focused on the death penalty for drug offences, which has seen a ten-percent increase in its use in the past 12 months. however, the threat of the death penalty does not deter drug trafficking or stop drug abuse, and punishment usually affects those who are part of the drug trafficking network involuntarily. although the vast majority of executions take place outside europe, it is important to remember that the death penalty is still an institution in belarus, which shares a border with the eu. with the slow improvement in eu relations with belarus, especially recently, we should use our growing negotiating potential and do our utmost to make the death penalty history for all of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the death penalty resolution. i appreciate that the abolition of the death penalty is a priority of the european union's human rights policy. it is inhuman, cruel and degrading punishment, and it violates the right to life enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and freedoms. alarmingly, last year nearly 2,500 people were executed in 55 countries, an increase of about 25 percent over the previous year. these numbers are not to be taken lightly. it is therefore also important to express support to all organisations that have long campaigned for the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. i hope very much that there will be countries that apply a general moratorium and in particular countries that ban the death penalty altogether.
in writing. i have supported today's resolution on the death penalty, because i believe that the prohibition of the death penalty is one of the fundamental principles of the member states of the european union and that it is desirable and necessary to extend it to other countries in the world. i therefore consider the text proposed useful, even if it does not lead to the abolition of the death penalty in individual third countries, but only to its non-application.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the world day against the death penalty, on 10 october 2015, the european parliament is adopting this resolution, which i supported. it condemns the use of the death penalty and all executions worldwide. paying particular attention to the death penalty in relation to drug trafficking, it reminds the commission and the member states of the recommendation that the abolition of the death penalty for drug-related offences should be made a precondition for any support for drug-law enforcement policy. it urges the european external action service, the commission and the member states to provide guidance for a comprehensive and effective european death penalty policy with regard to dozens of european nationals facing execution in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution because i consider it to be an expression of one of the most important long-term eu policies for strengthening human rights in the world. i praise the eu efforts invested in combating torture and the death penalty. the need to abolish these inhuman practices should be further highlighted. we must aim especially at abolition of the death penalty for drug-related crimes and acts which should not be considered as crime. i also believe that we need to lead a constructive dialogue with one of our most important partners, the united states, to prevent further executions in that country. i would like to see the commission preserving the european instrument for democracy and human rights, while increasing its effectiveness and its geographical scope.
in writing. today marks the fifth anniversary of a major environmental event in hungary, when in october 2010 almost 1 million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud leaked, flooding several villages and killing 10 people and injuring 150. the text underlines the need to learn from such disasters, to take a responsible approach to environmental protection, calls on the commission to promote environmental inspections and also calls on the member states to place particular emphasis on the prevention of such disasters. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which reflects on the progress made in response to the red mud disaster in hungary. the catastrophe happened in october 2010, when a waste reservoir collapsed and released almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, flooded several villages, killed 10 people, injured almost 150, and polluted vast areas of land. the european parliament found that little has been learned and that poor implementation of eu law, one of the causes of the disaster, continues. it calls, therefore, on the commission and the member states to ensure proper application of all relevant eu legislation and international conventions with regard to aluminium production and the environmentally sound management of red mud and hazardous waste in general.
‒ gender equality is one of the key issues in the development policy debate. barriers to equal opportunities for women and girls based solely on gender should be removed. women should have access to all levels of education as well as adequate health care. it is essential that the european union takes action to improve the current situation and to empower women. i am confident that the european union can contribute to these changes and thus positively influence not only current events but also future developments. changes in social, economic, cultural, and political settings will certainly help to improve the status of women and girls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that calls for a renewed political commitment to promoting gender equality and women’ empowerment (gewe), with a special focus on eu external policy. it encourages the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to step up efforts in this respect, and calls on the commission to introduce the new action plan in the form a communication, allowing time for scrutiny by the european parliament. the resolution calls for gewe issues to be part of the annual reports of all commission directorates-general involved in external action and of the eeas. importantly, it stresses that gender must be included in human rights dialogues between eu and third countries. last but not least, the resolution underlines the importance of data collection and measurable targets and it outlines key aspects of the new action plan.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has dealt with the report on equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation. i think it's very important to address the gender pay gap because formally, this principle has been around for a long time, but unfortunately, the practice is different. i have great respect for the work of our colleague, rapporteur janna zaborska, who has done a very good job and has prepared a good proposal. the fact that only 344 members voted in favour of the report in the end is a clear indication that a stronger consensus has not been achieved. we all want women to be paid the same as men for doing the same job. but unfortunately, amendments have been included in mrs zaborska's report which i consider to be in breach of subsidiarity in some cases. it is useless to include in this report mandatory quotas, mandatory plans for companies to deal with the gender issue, in short, regulations that go beyond the powers of the european parliament. unfortunately, therefore, it has not been possible to win support for a proposal that would have been a very practical tool for promoting equal pay between men and women. i believe, however, that this report, which was finally adopted, contains the very provisions which were prepared by mrs zaborska and which we voted on in committee and which may be useful.
in writing. ‒ i think it is right that men and women are given equal value if they can be shown to do the same job. on the other hand, i am not in favour of mandatory quotas or other forms of social engineering as the report advocates. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment of men and women is one of the fundamental principles of the eu law. we might not believe it but in 2015 the average gender pay gap in the eu is still above 16%, going as high as one-third of pay in some member states. as a result of the adoption of various instruments at national and eu level and of the consistent application by the courts of the principles of anti-discrimination laid down in article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in directive 2006/54/ec, we have come a long way forward on eliminating gender pay gap in salaries and pensions. however, what we need to fight more than ever are the stereotypes. if society is not ready to mature by overcoming traditional thinking, we will not be able to eliminate practices which belong to history. despite many positive elements outlined in this report, i took a decision to abstain on the final vote. simply i do not believe that financial sanctions and administrative burden on companies or binding quotas can fight the stereotypes which are at the core of direct and indirect discrimination on pay.
in writing. i voted against this report, which is so incredible and bizarre that it could only have been born in the completely detached environment of the brussels eurocracy. for the purpose of this explanation, i will select a few of the most egregious points: point 16 calls on the commission and the member states to take measures to monitor and control, by setting up effective monitoring systems, in order to improve the collection of data on harassment and discrimination cases, calls on the commission to closely monitor the effectiveness of national complaint handling bodies and their procedures in relation to the application of the directives on gender equality in matters of gender identity, expression and gender reassignment, and to support and encourage member states in the inclusion of transgender and intersex persons in diversity training; point 36 calls on the member states to [...] make it compulsory for companies to draw up and implement annual gender equality business plans, 41 calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to reverse the burden of proof so as to ensure that it is always the employer who will have to prove that the difference in treatment found does not lead to any discrimination (the rule of law is clearly something unacceptable in brussels) and paragraph 45 stresses that one of the best ways to achieve this objective has proved to be through binding quotas.
in writing. i supported the report on equal opportunities in employment and occupation because i believe that this issue needs to be given increased attention. i did so even though not every part of the final report corresponded to my views, but i still felt it necessary to support the report. the principle of equal pay should be the main priority, but it is also important to combat other obstacles to equal treatment, such as discrimination in pension schemes. i believe that, overall, there is a need to increase women's involvement in the management and governance of companies and enterprises, both to ensure their equal status and to fully exploit their abilities and potential.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament has voted favourably on the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. gender equality is something which the eu strives to achieve – as do i – and this measure helps to address some of the gaps that are still prevalent in the workplace. the report stresses the importance of fighting indirect discrimination, especially with regard to pension schemes. it also calls on the commission and member states to raise awareness regarding the pay and pensions gaps between the genders. in addition, it recommends that member states become role models within their own public institutions when it comes to equal pay for women. i am proud of the result of the vote on this report, and i believe that it will bring meaningful change and help with closing the gender gap.
in writing. all women can be victims of pay discrimination in the workplace. the fact that they receive less pay for comparable work than men has a significant impact on their social security in old age, among other things. it is unacceptable that women receive an average of 39% less pension than men. i therefore consider it necessary to introduce the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment in employment for men and women and therefore welcome the proposal for this report. employers should not only pay equal pay regardless of gender, but also increase the representation of women in senior positions.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote on the amendments to the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation, i voted to reaffirm my position, as i have expressed it in previous votes on similar cases, that in certain bioethical issues or family policy issues the subsidiarity principle should be applied consistently and that these issues should not be confused with issues which are the subject of other reports or opinions of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is concerned with the gender pay gap and discrimination in the workplace. it states that – in spite of eu efforts throughout the last 40 years, eu primary legislation and case law – the gender pay gap still exists, at an average of 16.4 % across the eu. the report therefore calls on the commission to prepare a new legislative proposal that would necessitate observance of the principle of equal pay. while i wholly subscribe to the concept of equal treatment of men and women in employment and otherwise, i have difficulties with some of the specific measures proposed by this report. in particular, i do not fully identify with the recommendation of binding quotas, which the report considers as the best way to increase women’s involvement in political and economic decision making. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
mr president, first of all, i would like to echo president schulz’s words of condolence to turkey and also his appreciation of the enormous efforts that turkey is making on the migration crisis. i will leave this aside from the issue of accession negotiations because i think that these are two somewhat partly interlinked, but still separate, issues. let me say that i am quite happy that it seems that we have left the point when the eu was polarising itself over the migration crisis. i leave aside who has contributed more or less to it, but i think that, in the words of nicolas schmit, the word ‘common’ is important, and ‘common’ is what we should remain. it should be a common effort and with a common effort we can succeed. the european council’s agenda is, i think, the right agenda. let me just emphasise a couple of points. i am sure that we will comply with the principles and values of humanity, but the valletta summit will also have to address, in an efficient way, the return and readmission policy of the european union. that is why i welcome those words: ‘this is the expectation of the citizens’. breaking up the criminal networks has, of course, to be sufficiently addressed as well, as does the prevention of illegal migration. finally, i will make two very brief remarks. regarding frontex, i understand that we want to enhance the mandate. i would just underline that this is not sufficient. we really need to significantly transform the agency, frontex, into something that will have competences, people, a unified command, so to speak, and will be able to address the task. my final remark, addressing president juncker, is on the packages that we are to get – one on the protection of borders, one on economic migration, and a third one. let us make it one package at the same time so that we can really deliver in a very complex and comprehensive way. my apologies to the chair. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i shall be very brief and also i apologise as i will have to leave immediately afterwards for a meeting with the prime minister of the czech republic. very briefly, i can assess the scandal and whether i have heard of it. yes, i have heard the czech minister of defence martin stropnický basically quoting the hungarian minister of defence, his counterpart. i do not know whether one should speak of a scandal, but i know martin stropnický and he is usually very much on the cautious side, so i have no reason to disbelieve his statement. but i have not spoken to him in the last few days.
madam president, let us sum up what we have on the table forty-seven days before the paris climate conference: optimistic statements, the excellent report by gilla pargneaux, commitments negotiated or offered so far that are about half of what we would need, the weakness of replacing the revision clause with coal, the funding of climate action of 100 billion, but the reflections of the states, the reflections of those parties are very, very disparate so insufficient. we have more global support for fossil fuels than we have for climate change mitigation, and yet many say we're being too ambitious. thanks to gill pargneaux, we'll have a good position at the climate conference, and let's be clear, paris is our last chance. if the nations don't agree on a solution in paris, the next conference will be at best about adaptation or survival. if anyone needs a picture of the impact of climate change, let them multiply the current migration crisis by about a hundred.
madam president, the situation in ukraine is a ticking time bomb that could trigger a major migration wave. there are almost two million idps in ukraine alone. the endless war, the economic collapse, the inflation, all bring down living standards. according to unhcr, five million people are already in need of humanitarian aid. the flow of migrants is increasing in the self-proclaimed east ukrainian republics. the so-called government of lugansk has decided to suspend ten un agencies, including those such as unhcr. these evictions mean the distribution of 16,000 tons of vital humanitarian aid has been halted. humanitarian aid has been cut off to about 150,000 people. people fleeing war and poverty. they're allowing the eastern refugee waves to build. to stop it is to stop the war. stopping the war means helping ukraine win.
madam president, i want to say in this one-minute speech that i feel as if europe is being haunted by one crisis after another. the ukrainian crisis is intertwined with the other crises - the refugee and the greek. i think it is important that we do not back down from the demands that have resulted in the european sanctions against the russian federation for its actions in ukraine. in my opinion, it is very important to stick to this policy. i am a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for example, and although these sanctions have provoked some negative reactions, i want to say that i fully support them. because it is unacceptable that such a violation of international law, of international law, of sovereignty, of the provocation of such a huge conflict in ukraine, which was staged by the russian federation. until they agree to restore the situation in the area of peaceful fulfillment of their obligations, i think we cannot withdraw from these sanctions. it's going to cost us, but i think this is our position of principle.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i would like to ask you if you agree with me when i ask you whether this oral question should not be extended to anti-christianity, because many of these attacks are also directed against christians in european countries.
madam president, let us remember that we have european union citizens among us who attack other european union citizens. antisemitism and other forms of hate are unfortunately becoming more common among the european population, as claude moraes said. and what have we done about this phenomenon? we as meps, we as the european union? how do we combat these expressions of hate? how do we plan to address these problems in the future? unfortunately, i have not yet seen a european union strategy that reflects the seriousness of this problem. i don't know about you, but i consider each of these attacks a great defeat for european society, a defeat for european integration and a defeat for ourselves. and here the role of the european commission, the member states themselves and us meps is crucial.
madam president, anti-semitism, islamophobia, hatred of christianity, these are all manifestations that we must confront by looking at the causes and trying to eliminate them. i thank the commissioner for the reminder of the european programmes which are so preventive. european funds have funded, for example, a project by icei, which has brought living witnesses of the holocaust into schools and, in doing so, i think has had an indelible positive impact on the thinking of thousands of young people and their relationship with judaism. i definitely see education and training as the solution. let me quote a recent text by jan graubner, archbishop of olomouc, who spoke about the current situation: "why are we surprised by the fear of foreigners and people of other religions in post-communist countries? all the generations alive today have either been trained in communist schools that inculcate hatred of religion and of the germans, especially the sudeten germans, or they are being trained by young teachers who have been brought up in the spirit of neo-marxism that still reigns in some educational faculties. i still get testimonies from young people who were bullied for their faith as schoolchildren.
madam president, on the floor of the european parliament i must once again point out the great injustice that is being perpetrated in the matter of protecting the rights of children, citizens of the european union, who are illegally detained and put up for adoption. this is especially striking in these days when europeans are trying to help refugees. among other things, by trying to ensure that their families are kept together. last week, the norwegian authorities decided to take away the parental rights of a czech mother. her children, two brothers, separated and gave one of them up for adoption. in the european union, direct biological relatives of both boys live there and are very interested in them. the czech state has even vouched for their integrity, which in itself is something extraordinary. it is tragic that in the european union, in the 21st century, we are still allowing such social experiments, and i think we have to think seriously about how we can prevent these mistakes and injustices in the future.
madam chairman, yesterday an international team of investigators published the final report of their investigation into the tragedy of flight mh17, which was reported to have been hit by a russian buk missile fired from territory controlled by pro-russian separatists. he believes the version presented by russian state television that the malaysian plane was shot down by a ukrainian fighter. no member of the international commission of inquiry has challenged the findings, except russia. it's consistent with the way moscow is behaving in international relations now. it's not so much about convincing others of her version of the truth, but rather creating a chaos in which the truth disappears. we can't let that happen. similarly, we must not allow ourselves to lift the sanctions imposed on russia until the conditions that have been declared by the european union are met. the strongest argument for preserving them is the way moscow has handled the mh17 investigation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls for fixing the date of effect of decision 2008/633/jha. the decision concerns access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by designated authorities of member states and by europol when all the requisite conditions have been met. it aims to replace council decision 2013/392/eu, which was annulled by the court of justice of the european union. in its judgment, the court maintained the effects of decision 2013/392/eu until the entry into force of a new act intended to replace it. the purpose of the access to the vis is to prevent, detect and investigate terrorist offences and other serious crimes, facilitating thus the european security agenda.
in writing. ‒ this budget amendment is a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu’s budget. i supported its adoption, drawing on parliament’s stance that it is soundly based on statistical data and in line with agreed distribution between member states. overall, draft amending budget no 6/2015 will not affect the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and its impact on the revenue side is only a change in the distribution between member states’ contributions. it concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, covers the creation of two new budget items for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission, and provides for a change to the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed the issue of an immediate increase in the budget for the migration agency. i recognize that the refugee crisis is a phenomenon that needs to be addressed urgently. the report contains some measures with which i agree, namely the need to find funding for the stabilisation of refugee countries of origin and support for transit countries, as well as for the expansion of the so-called hotspots. i also support the increase in staff for frontex and europol. but at the same time, i have a problem of principle with the fact that in a time of economic crisis, when unemployment is rising and many people are falling below the poverty line, and when strict austerity measures are being announced, suddenly there are such huge amounts of money in the eu budget to finance projects related to the wave of refugees. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to find additional resources under the 2016 and 2017 european union budgets, in order to fund the european agenda on migration. to this end, the commission has proposed mobilising the flexibility instrument, over and above the multiannual financial framework ceilings. the aim is to complement the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures for managing the refugee and migration crisis. there will be an allocation of eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ the current migration crisis requires that practical measures be taken without delay to bring about real improvements at the external borders, in transit countries and in the countries of destination of refugees. that is why i supported the 7th draft amending budget for 2015. the proposal will in particular increase the staffing of the three agencies directly involved in managing migration flows by 120 staff. the measure concerns the european asylum support office, frontex and europol. the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund will also be increased. as it is clear that the european neighbourhood policy needs to undergo a fundamental reform and become much more visible beyond europe's borders, i also supported the increase in its budget. i am very reluctant to accept that this problem can be solved by simply transferring financial commitments from one budget line to another without the necessary increase in payment appropriations. this system is unsustainable in the long term and needs to be recognised by member states as soon as possible. i therefore call on the commission to take the necessary steps in this respect and to include this need in the next draft amending budget that it submits.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget because i consider it the duty of the european parliament to work for a practical solution to the migration crisis as soon as possible. in this respect, i very much welcome the european commission's accessibility, which has managed to prepare the relevant legislation in an extremely short timeframe. every delay only makes the situation worse, not only from the human but also from the financial point of view. parliament's decisions have made it possible to take the first concrete steps towards better managing the migration wave. it also called on member states to mobilise their financial resources as soon as possible to improve the humanitarian situation.
in writing. ‒ there is a strong need for more financial resources to tackle the immigration crisis and i therefore voted in favour of increasing the eu 2015 budget for this purpose. the report proposes raising the budget by eur 330.7 million with a view to funding the implementation of the european agenda on migration. specifically, it will contribute to the reinforcement of emergency assistance and an increase in staff for the european agencies frontex, easo and europol. furthermore the additional funds will be used to foster the response to the situation in syria and for humanitarian aid for the refugees in need.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this proposal to amend the 2015 budget. in my opinion, these funds are well spent. in particular, frontex, easo and europol need to be strengthened before the end of the year. with this approved increase, they will be better able to handle the migration crisis. i'm also very pleased that we've included more money in this proposal for non-eu countries that are the destination for most syrian refugees. i consider these steps to be a step in the right direction and i believe that it is precisely the focus on third countries, beyond the eu borders, that will contribute to a significant improvement in the migration crisis in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of uplifting the parliamentary immunity of hungarian mep béla kovács. the waiver was requested so that the central chief prosecution office of hungary could carry out an investigation on the basis of reasonable suspicions, to see whether a charge will lie against him with regard to the offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union under section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. the suspicion was raised by mr kovács alleged covert contacts with russian intelligence officers. parliament agreed that there was no suspicion that the matter is being raised with the intention of causing political damage to mr kovács.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s approval of the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova for the position of deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments. ms tsanova has over 12 years of development banking experience with the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), where she currently holds the position of director responsible for eu co-financing and financial engineering. in 2013 and 2014, she was appointed deputy prime minister in two separate caretaker governments of bulgaria, with special responsibility for european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report giving consent to the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer for the position of managing director of the european fund for strategic investments. wilhelm molterer is a former vice-president of the european investment bank (2011-2015), where he was responsible for cohesion and for advisory services. before joining the eib, he was a member of the austrian parliament. he has been vice—chancellor and finance minister of austria and chairman of the austrian people’s party. wilhelm molterer has a degree and postgraduate qualifications in economics and social sciences from the university of linz.
madam president, i also want to comment on the mandate we approved today. i voted for that vote. however, i am a little embarrassed that the ppe's position has not been supported, particularly in the area of the requirement that europe should not be alone in its proposals, but that there should be a genuine global consensus among the widest possible number of un member states on limits that will be valid worldwide. it is simply not possible for some member states to undertake commitments that others will not accept and thus gain a competitive advantage, even if they are not acting responsibly in relation to our fate, our future. we must find an international agreement which does not exclude european businesses from the competitive environment, that is what i wanted to ask for.
madam president, i have finally endorsed the european parliament's common position on the climate agreement. this agreement is for me proof of the european union's will to combat climate change, which means, among other things, warming and the resulting environmental and economic impacts on all continents. so europe can lead by example, but unfortunately europe alone cannot reverse this trend. that is why i also supported proposals that call on the world's major emitters to take equally ambitious action. unfortunately, these proposals were not accepted. i fully support the efforts to conclude a legally binding treaty for all, replacing the kyoto protocol, but without jeopardising the competitiveness of the european economy. i also appreciate that our report refers to pope francis's encyclical 'laudato si', aptly subtitled 'caring for our common home', which criticises the consumer society and irresponsible development and calls for swift and concerted global action.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report on the ambitious project to conclude an international agreement to combat climate change, which will be discussed at the cop 21 climate change conference to be held in paris in december 2015. i am convinced that the eu could play a mediating role and thus make a significant contribution to the conclusion of a legally binding and ambitious international climate agreement. i too recognize the need to fight climate change on a global scale, and of course i recognize the critical importance of a stable climate system for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, infrastructure, biodiversity conservation, terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and global peace and prosperity. i also support the idea that stimulating innovation in technology and business models can be a driver for both economic growth and emission reductions. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the forthcoming international climate conference in paris because i believe that the international community should make progress on the path to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i believe it is important that all major global emitters join the commitments in this area and that eu officials should make maximum diplomatic efforts in this regard. i support the solution put forward by the ep in its resolution of 5 february 2014 calling for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, a 30% renewable energy target and a 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by the vote taken by parliament on the report for the paris climate agreement. it shows that the eu recognises the important work that needs to be done, and that it needs to be done on a global level. i agree that this protocol must be legally binding in order for real change to transpire. furthermore, we need to keep in mind the financial aspect of this agreement and have the eu and member states create a plan to scale up our climate financial goals. this is an important part of the process in order for everyone to meet their fair share by 2020. in addition to increasing our financial support, we also need to increase the use of climate diplomacy. i believe that comprehensive climate diplomacy can be a great tool to help bring about tangible change. finally, i would like to stress the importance of this protocol in paris; the decisions that we make today will affect many generations of the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own-initiative report, which sets out the position of the european parliament ahead of the climate summit in paris in december 2015. this complex document covers various aspects of the issue, such as climate change mitigation and adaptation, climate finance, the contribution of different sectors, scientific research and climate diplomacy. it addresses emissions from different sectors including transport and agriculture and forestry. the report holds that the agreement in paris must be legally binding and ambitious and should aim at phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter in order to keep the world on a cost-effective emission trajectory compatible with the below-2°c target. it calls on the cop 21 parties to support five-year commitment periods as the most appropriate choice.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, well, first of all, without trying to encroach on the commission’s powers, i would like also to endorse the decision outlawing tax rulings that allow big companies to avoid taxes in certain countries of the european union. this verdict sends a strong signal not only to companies trying to exploit loopholes in tax systems and mismatches between national rules to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, but also to eu member states, which also have their share of responsibility when it comes to tax fairness. i think this investigation proves once again that it is essential to give the commission a central role in the process of automatic exchange of information so that it can ensure full compliance with eu law. i really hope member states will draw the lesson from these cases and agree to give the commission access to the documents it needs to ensure european companies are treated on a true level playing field. the text of our report goes in the right direction and allows for balanced transparency provisions. although i can understand some people would like full access to the rulings, i think what matters is to have the key information made available to the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur and other shadows for the work done. it resulted in a good report, in my opinion, with a fairly limited number of amendments to be voted and i am glad that it goes against the sort of current trend when we often vote separately on almost every point.
madam president, i welcome the report on the automatic exchange of information as this presents important steps in the area of taxation. this is part of an anti-beps initiative that should make tax collection more efficient, fairer and better. parliament only has a consultative role here, but i hope that the council will listen to parliament’s opinion in tax matters, as we are aiming to improve the situation and provide our expertise and our opinion. i hope that the council members will take decisions that are good for the future of europe and european citizens. lastly, we should refrain from the idea that more is always better. instead of going for the most extensive regulations and decisions, we should try to get the best and the most efficient. so we should remember that more is not always better, not only in other areas but also in the area of fighting against beps and tax avoidance.
mr president, commissioner, a whole range of eu consumers are now living online we shop, we search for travel services online. in the czech republic, for example, 2 million trips are made annually, more than half. so i am pleased to be able to support today this proposal for a directive which takes account of the digital revolution and seeks to make life easier for us, citizens, who pack our travels online. vacation is, or should be, a time for us to rest and relax, but unfortunately many of us have experienced situations where not everything is going according to our needs. these feelings are doubled at a time when we don't know who to turn to, who to get help from. i therefore welcome the fact that the new directive provides an answer to these questions, gives consumers clear rights and obligations, we will know who is responsible for what and we can also know who to turn to and claim damages. i also welcome the fact that once this directive comes into force, each of us will be able to transfer our travel packages to someone else if we are unable to travel for any reason. we don't lose our money in case of illness or when work doesn't allow it. in my view, this directive represents a good compromise between the defence of consumer rights on the one hand, but also the opportunities for small and family businesses in tourism, as mr schwab has mentioned. we have managed to avoid attempts to burden passengers with additional costs, but at the same time to ensure that each traveller receives the high level of service that he or she rightly expects. i believe that this new directive will be beneficial for all travellers, that it will boost even more tourism. at this point, we can only regret that it cannot come into force sooner.
mr president, commissioner, we made it clear at the beginning of this parliamentary term that we would not tolerate any error in the agencies and any errors in the budget of the european union. the institute of innovation and technology has had major problems in the past with the implementation of budgets and the legality of grant transactions. the institute was unable to ensure ex ante verification and independent audit, the staff turnover in the agency was above average and the overall management was very weak. therefore, we have decided to suspend the audit of this agency. however, with the new leadership we are seeing huge changes and have therefore decided to grant the eit discharge for 2013, but on the condition that we continue to monitor it. there's been a big shift on the institute's part, which is why we're supporting the discharge. i would like to emphasize that while the institute continues to address the problem areas, we are currently addressing a much larger problem, with the council. the council has repeatedly failed to obtain discharge from the european parliament and i think it is the commission's task to try to resolve the whole problem as quickly as possible.
mr president, three days ago i returned from syria, where i was invited by the headquarters of the syrian kurdish armed forces, ypg and ypj. i traveled about 500 miles [800 km] through rojava, in syrian kurdistan. the basic insight i gained from the meeting at headquarters is that the syrian armed forces are the only armed force in the region that is capable and willing to destroy or significantly weaken isis. only the destruction and eradication of isis can prevent the new waves of refugees from syria. the syrian kurds are crying out for help. they are directly threatened in their existence and their extermination is genocidal in nature. i learned that in kobanê, the city that isis destroyed to the last house. we talk too much, ladies and gentlemen, and we do too little. the kurds need weapons and ammunition, demining specialists, better coordination with the international coalition in bombing islamic state positions. we talk too much, ladies and gentlemen, and people die.
mr president, mr vice-president, any price regulation is something we should not be happy about. but in this case, i'm glad we're nearing the end of roaming. this can benefit citizens and businesses travelling abroad who will make more use of data services. but operators will also finally have clarity on the rules for charging for roaming services. on net neutrality in brief: i believe that the new rules are balanced and i fully support the compromise reached with the council. today we are closing one chapter, but the commission is still consulting. we expect big investments from the telecom sector, but they need regulatory stability. i hope therefore that we will give careful consideration to any new regulation and that it will be one which is oriented towards the future and for the good of the cause.
in writing. i support the proposal as i believe that roaming has no place in the eu today and must be abolished. on the other hand, i can imagine the final design could be even better. the drawn-out negotiations on the abolition of roaming charges are, in my view, a good example of bad practice, i.e. the lobbying capacity of telecommunications companies. roaming could and should have been abolished earlier, calling cheaper than we could from this year's holiday. despite these delays, i am pleased that we have been able to agree on a sequential approach, namely the fixing of roaming charges and their subsequent abolition from june 2017. it is certainly an important step towards the eu's digital single market. on the other hand, i regret that the council has not taken a clear stand on the need to respect net neutrality. the internet is a kind of public infrastructure and it is not desirable that some entities should be able to pay for better access and movement on this infrastructure at the expense of others. i am against tolerating any practices that prevent all actors using the internet from having the same rights and opportunities. i would consider that an unequal situation. but i believe that the proposal is better than no proposal. although i agree in principle with the content of the amendments tabled, i decided to abstain.
mr president, when i hear the conclusions of the council and the statements made by many members here, it seems to me that the great problem facing europe is false humanism. you who supported the overthrow of the regime in syria, in libya, were you really concerned about the welfare of those people or did you just want to overthrow evil dictators and show the world how human you are? you who have opened the arms of the state to migrants and are providing them with generous support, do you really want to make these people better off, or do you just want to show the world and yourself how human you are? the council now talks in its conclusions about wanting to strengthen the protection of the external border, but it was your government members who voted here a month ago to criticise the surveillance of the external border. so it seems very cheap to me to criticize border protection from the comfort of the european parliament. i'm afraid the big problem we have here is a false humanism.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing the directive setting maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and the council regulation introducing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. i consider that both of the legislation in the field of the common agricultural policy are no longer relevant either because of their temporary validity or because they have been replaced by the following legislation. by repealing directives and regulations that are no longer valid and necessary, we will increase transparency. in addition, updating and streamlining will certainly lead to a clearer overview of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal of the commission to repeal two legal acts concerning the common agricultural policy which have become obsolete, even though they are formally still in force. the repeal affects council directive 76/621/eec relating to the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and to council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. this move is in line with better law—making of the eu institutions, which agreed that community law should be updated and condensed by repealing acts which are no longer applied.
madam president, i have supported this report, although i am aware that there is a certain tension between the question of protecting banking secrecy, that is, protecting certain sensitive information, which is the content of the right to privacy. and then there's the right of the state to make sure that taxes are properly paid. it is certainly clear that in the past switzerland has served those tax residents from the european union countries who have hidden their income from proper taxation here, and i think that is obviously not right. and most of all, it creates a kind of unfair competition between these two blocs, the eu bloc and switzerland. i am therefore pleased that the swiss federation has also agreed to the text of this agreement, which will indeed make it more difficult for tax residents to circumvent tax laws from 2018, and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to the council decision to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. i voted in favour of it, as it underlines the importance of taking effective action against fraud and tax avoidance. this is crucial especially in the case of tax evasion and tax avoidance by natural and legal persons that are based in the eu with the involvement of financial institutions based in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because i believe that the agreement represents an important step in the continuing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement. effective action is needed to counter this negative behaviour by both legal and natural persons in the eu with holdings in financial institutions in third countries.
madam president, as regards the report under discussion, i.e. income from savings and their taxation under a bilateral agreement concluded by the european union under the 2003 directive, when it came into force, i naturally supported it. this is a good way to prevent illegal taxation in some eu member states by strengthening the eu's common position. of course, this is welcome, but on the other hand i have to take a breath to see what these agreements are in force against the fact that the representative of one of the eu member states agrees that there will be two rates. one for everybody, and one for the various companies and businesses that the government deals with. then i'd say these deals are pretty much worthless.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the commission proposal for a council directive that repeals council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and i voted in favour of it. however, it should be noted that while parliament supported the repeal of the savings directive, it warned that this may contribute to creating legal loopholes if separate bilateral agreements between the eu and five european countries that are not its member states (switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, monaco and andorra) are not rapidly concluded. parliament asked the commission to continue monitoring the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to launch automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden. the proposed council implementing decision seeks to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data. this act follows council decision 2008/615/jha, which incorporates the substance of the so-called ʽprüm treatyʼ. the initiative between belgium, bulgaria, germany, spain, france, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, slovenia, slovakia, italy, finland, portugal, romania and sweden focuses on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration. in order to strengthen freedom, security and justice, it recommends making full use of new technologies and enabling reciprocal access to national databases.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden, i also supported this report on the launching of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium, authorising it to receive and supply personal data. this act follows council decision 2008/615/jha, which incorporates the substance of the so called ʽprüm treatyʼ. the initiative between belgium, bulgaria, germany, spain, france, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, slovenia, slovakia, italy, finland, portugal, romania and sweden focuses on stepping up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration. in order to strengthen freedom, security and justice, it recommends making full use of new technologies and enabling reciprocal access to national databases.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden and belgium, i also voted in favour of launching an automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland, authorising it to receive and supply personal data. this act follows council decision 2008/615/jha, which incorporates the substance of the so called ʽprüm treaty’. the initiative between belgium, bulgaria, germany, spain, france, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, slovenia, slovakia, italy, finland, portugal, romania and sweden focuses on stepping up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration. in order to strengthen freedom, security and justice, it recommends making full use of new technologies and enabling reciprocal access to national databases.
in writing. ‒ i am glad we have adopted this second reading agreement and am proud that i had a part in making sure it was good for both consumers and businesses. i can only repeat my regret that it will not come into force sooner. my thanks to the latvian presidency and our rapporteur.
in writing. since the adoption of the accompanying directive in 2004, the tourism sector has changed considerably. in particular, consumers are increasingly choosing to buy their travel arrangements via the internet, where the retailer is able to tailor the trip to each individual customer, but this also carries a number of risks in the form of unclear, misleading or incomplete information provided by the retailer of the products offered. the aim of the amendment of the directive must be to increase transparency and thus ultimately to increase the protection of the client, that is to say the consumer. the directive thus introduces, for example, an obligation to inform travellers before making a payment whether they have chosen a package or linked travel service and, if so, what their level of protection is. i agree with the vast majority of the elements contained in the amended text, for example that key information such as essential travel services or prices contained in advertising material, on the organiser's website or in catalogues as part of the pre-contractual information should be binding unless the organiser reserves the right to change these elements and clearly communicates this to the traveller before the contract is concluded. furthermore, the passenger's right to withdraw from the contract should be clearly formulated. i backed the text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that travellers who organise their own holidays and buy accommodation or a plane ticket through linked websites will have the same rights to protection in the european union as travel agency clients. the new rules take account of the increase in the number of people who book their holidays on-line with linked service providers. the commission will also consider the possibility of a new contract for the provision of services to passengers, in particular for the provision of services to the public, to be a package contract. organisers and retailers will have to make clear to passengers that they are package services and inform them of who is responsible in the event of complications.
in writing. i supported the final text of the package travel directive because it is necessary to adapt the rules to the current trends of greater use of the internet as a tool for holiday making, from travel, to accommodation, to ancillary services such as car rental at the place of stay. consumers who book travel services through packages and via the internet will enjoy the same levels of protection as those who use the services of traditional travel agents. i consider that the important provisions that have been successfully put to the european parliament are, in particular, the provision of clear and unambiguous information on the travel package and liability in the event of complications, the possibility of withdrawing from the contract in the event of a substantial change in commercial conditions, and a higher level of protection for passengers in the event of their inability to return due to unavoidable and unforeseeable circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report, because i appreciate its contribution to the better protection of citizens who buy their holidays online. the aim of the report is to adopt a directive on package travel and linked travel arrangements, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directive 90/314/eec. the revised laws improve consumer rights, by putting in place stricter controls on price surcharges, a requirement to pass on price reductions to customers, compensation for non-material damages and refunds of all payments in case providers go bankrupt.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this directive, which strengthens the rights of consumer travellers to book and take trips. when arranging and, above all, completing trips, the traveller places himself entirely in the hands of the travel agency, whether for transport, accommodation or food. i am convinced that a clear definition of what constitutes a tour, improved protection in the event of the insolvency of the tour operator or a clarification of the scope of pre-contractual information will not only lead to travellers' satisfaction but also, as a consequence, to an increase in the volume of trips.
madam president, i also consider it very important that we have decided today, at second reading, to adopt a regulation on the open internet and the rights of users of electronic communications services. this is important, above all, from the point of view of consumers, because, as has already been said, the agreement on the abolition of roaming charges will be valid, albeit with a delay, but it will be valid. it's a certain tribute to the compromise that had to be built here. this is important to be able to build a european digital single market and to make the european union competitive. i am also glad that the eurosceptics recognize that without this agreement, the consumer in europe would also be very much impoverished and that perhaps the european union has an important role to play in this. i did not vote for proposals that i thought were important, such as the definition of net neutrality. i think that in the future there is of course room to monitor the impact and to improve this regulation.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported the proposal because i made a promise to my voters that we would end roaming in europe, and today we did just that. could the law have been better? yes. i regret that the council did not accept to make it 100% clear that net neutrality must be respected in europe and by all companies. but i believe the overall package is better than no package at all which would have happened if we had adopted the amendments. this is why, while i agree with the ideas included in the amendments tabled, i had to abstain during the votes. but rest assured the fight for better protection of the consumers on the internet is not over.
in writing. i welcome the compromise reached in the report on the single market for electronic communications. after delays caused by the council, the european public will finally get to see the long-promised abolition of roaming charges. it is commendable that the rapporteur and his shadow colleagues have made this a common priority. as regards net neutrality, i supported some of the amendments tabled by the greens and gue/ngl groups, as i believe they provide a clearer definition of net neutrality and at the same time allow member states to strengthen the proposed measures. it is important that europe sets fair standards for network transmission.
in writing. ‒ i have been in favour of abolishing roaming charges from the outset. however, the result achieved in the council has, in my view, in principle nothing in common with the original ambitious objectives set by the european parliament in 2011. the resulting text still leaves room for fees, just with a different name. at the same time, it is absolutely essential for me to fight for the principle of so-called net neutrality, which simply means the principle of equality of data transmitted over the internet, that is, internet providers must treat traffic on their networks in the same way, that is, they cannot offer users an internet service faster than some companies and get paid by these companies. net neutrality means that all data transmitted over this line is sent with the same priority. thus, there cannot be a situation where, for example, one data package is given priority over another on the basis of content, origin or type of service. the opposite of net neutrality would be a situation where a company could subscribe to a privilege for its services at the expense of the services of other companies. this would slow down competition, which could not afford to pay the fee. in the course of the discussions with the council, it became clear that the latter was not prepared to accept a clear definition of the term in the proposal. for this reason, i could not support the text in its current form.
in writing. i supported the report which brings the abolition of roaming charges to 14 june 2017. since the phasing out of roaming charges, i promise an increase in mobile phone usage when travelling abroad. statistics show that half of people do not use mobile data services when abroad, and instead access the internet through other means than their mobile phone. this forced change in consumer behaviour will no longer be necessary, as consumers will no longer be discouraged by higher telephone charges when abroad. the end of roaming charges could have come sooner, but in the context of complicated negotiations with the member states, this is a compromise which i regard as a successful outcome. the obligation on the provider to inform the consumer of the minimum and maximum data rates that he can expect before signing the contract also strengthens the consumer's rights. if the connection provider then fails to comply, this will be grounds for withdrawal from the contract.
in writing. i supported the final form of the so-called telecommunications package because it would bring two major benefits to consumers. this is the latest step in a long-running effort by the social democrats group in the european parliament to end roaming charges and break down the illogical artificial borders for mobile communications within the eu. the provisions on ensuring net neutrality through an open internet based on non-discrimination, transparency and clear end-user rights are equally important. for the first time, this will be a rule in european legislation that internet access service providers must treat all traffic equally.
in writing. i supported today's legislative resolution of the european parliament on the single european market for electronic communications, in particular because it represents a long-awaited and necessary step towards the abolition of roaming charges. i regret that the compromise adopted did not contain an explicit definition of net neutrality, but this principle was reflected in the specific provisions of the compromise and i consider the abolition of roaming charges across the european union to be an important example of the added value that the european union can bring. the abolition of roaming charges covers both calling, sms and data services and will take effect from 15 june 2017. today's vote thus represents an important moment in the process of building a european digital single market. however, it is important for the future that the european commission strictly monitors the proper implementation of these rules so that the desired effect is actually achieved.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament decided to approve the agreement reached with the council on so-called telecoms package today. one of the main issues of this agreement was the end of roaming charges by mid-2017. roaming has been one of my priorities for a long time, therefore i decided to support this agreement. the result is great news for the european public, and is a key element of our future digital single market. however i still have some provisions towards the agreement. i am still convinced that the end-date of the roaming should be earlier than mid-2017. the text has been diluted on issues like net neutrality, so i decided to co-sponsor amendments tabled on this matter. however support of tabled amendments would entail annulment of the agreement, which would greatly delay the entire process. furthermore there would be no guarantee to obtain a better deal with council. therefore i decided not to vote in favour of any of the amendments tabled in a second reading.
in writing. ‒ i campaigned for the abolition of roaming during my election campaign and i am pleased that this report brings us one step closer to achieving this. i also believe it is important that the eu continues to work on the development of digital technologies and remains at the forefront of the world in this field. i think a compromise is a good start.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i oppose capital punishment. while i do not wish to force any country to change its laws, i do not think we should supply them with the tools to carry out those laws.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report which aims to contribute to the protection of human rights through the control of goods or activities that are or could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the eu has a long-standing policy to end the use of the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. they seek to achieve these objectives through prohibitions linked to licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. it governs the prohibition of trade in 'single-use' goods intended for torture and the execution of the death penalty and related technical assistance (annex ii) and the system for approving 'dual-use' goods that could be misused for torture and the execution of the death penalty by lethal injection (annex iii). i believe that the revision of the eu-wide controls on trade in torture instruments should have been done a long time ago and is a step in the right direction, which is why i supported the report in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported tightening the rules on trade in certain goods that could be used for capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment or punishment. i see them as part of an effective fight against human rights abuses in the world. i expect that the eu's policy in this area will be made more effective, for example, by the establishment of a coordination group against torture under the chairmanship of the commission, with direct cooperation and exchange of information, consultation of exporters, intermediaries and other relevant stakeholders, and submission of a written annual report to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims at strengthening the controls of torture tools. the report seeks to amend council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, known as the ‘anti-torture regulation’. the ‘anti-torture regulation’ contributes to the eu policy of eliminating death penalty worldwide, and of preventing torture. it helps achieve these goals by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. it governs a ban of trade in ‘single-use’ torture and execution items and related technical assistance and an authorisation system for ‘multi-purpose’ items that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injections.
in writing. ‒ especially after the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament is firmly committed to not tolerating tax fraud and tax evasion and will advocate that the tax burden be shared fairly between citizens and society. the problems caused by crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition are increasingly significant and are thus receiving eu attention. tax avoidance reduces member states' revenues and also distorts competition, to the detriment of smes in particular. today we discussed a report which establishes mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation as one of the possible tools to combat tax avoidance. since my amendment was also adopted, which guarantees that there will be no harmonisation of tax rates, i am convinced that this issue should definitely remain within the competence of the individual member states, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because an increase in transparency concerning tax rulings is needed. the report seeks to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the reason is that currently, member states share very little information with one another about their tax rulings. as a result, they do not spontaneously exchange their tax rulings and are often unaware of cross-border tax rulings issued elsewhere in the eu which may impact their own tax bases. to bring more transparency, the mechanisms established by council directive 2011/16/eu need to be enhanced. regarding some of the european parliament’s amendments to the commission proposal, it agreed that the directive should apply to all tax rulings and not just cross border rulings and advance pricing arrangements, since purely national transactions can also have cross-border effects.
in writing. ‒ in april this year, the european parliament proposed to postpone the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking because of insufficient ex post audit arrangements. the additional discharge was conditional on the introduction of a number of measures, including measures for ex post audits of administrative agreements signed with national funding bodies, which include the introduction of a specific reporting form and are complemented by the evaluation of national guarantee schemes by the joint undertaking and by visits by the court of auditors to national funding bodies. furthermore, the court received verified information directly from the participating member states. the joint undertaking further developed a new methodology for estimating the residual error rate, with an error rate of approximately 0,7% found to be well below the generally tolerated rate of 2%. during 2014, the artemis joint undertaking was merged with the eu eniac joint undertaking to form the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel). as the shadow rapporteur for the 2014 joint undertakings discharge, i am therefore continuously monitoring the developments in both undertakings (artemis and the successor ecsel). in the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for the changes implemented, as i did at the october plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, regarding an analysis of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking and comprising two decisions and a resolution on it. the first decision seeks to grant discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the second aims at the approval of the closure of artemis’s accounts. thirdly, with respect to the implementation of the budget, the resolution provides observations on budgetary and financial management, internal control systems, prevention and management of conflicts of interests and transparency and monitoring and reporting of research results. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a ‘research agenda’ for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which i had already voted for in the committee on budgetary control. the european institute of innovation and technology has gone through a difficult period in recent years and a number of serious errors have been found in its management, which is why the european parliament decided in april this year to postpone the discharge, expecting proposals for concrete improvements in the areas identified. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual implementation of the aid measures in question, and that the commission has not provided any information on the actual implementation of the aid measures. the european parliament therefore decided, after considering additional information and analysing the real situation at the institute, to grant a discharge, including a list of conditions and measures that led to improvements in 2014 and in the spirit of which the institute continues to operate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of two decisions and a resolution regarding the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) 2013 discharge. the first decision grants the director of the eit discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute’s budget for the financial year 2013. the second approves the closure of eit’s accounts for the financial year 2013. the resolution provides comments on legality and regularity of eit’s transactions, on budget and financial management and on internal audit.
in writing. ‒ eniac is part of the so-called eu joint undertakings, in which other partners (in this case the eu member states) are involved, has financial autonomy but is subject to the eu's budgetary discharge. the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for 2013 was postponed in april this year. the reason for the delay was mainly the european court of auditors' repeated concern about the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the project cost statements of the national funding bodies and thus does not provide sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the operations carried out. eniac has taken significant measures to improve the situation in the meantime, which include the introduction of a specific reporting form to increase this certainty, and are complemented by the evaluation of the national guarantee schemes by the joint undertaking and by visits by the court of auditors to the national funding bodies. the committee on budgetary control, of which i am a member, considered the additional information to be sufficient to grant discharge. that is why i voted in committee and in plenary to grant discharge. i am continuously monitoring the situation with regard to the eu joint undertakings intensively from my position as shadow rapporteur for the 2014 discharge of the eu joint undertakings.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of artemis joint undertaking and eit, i also endorsed the two decisions and a resolution regarding the eniac joint undertaking. the first decision grants the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2013. the second decision approves the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the resolution summarises eniac’s budgetary and financial management and prevention and management of conflicts of interests and transparency. the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a ‘research agenda’ for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics across different application areas.
in writing. ‒ i have decided not to support the discharge to the european council and the council for the financial year 2013. the two institutions have already broken the principles of transparency on several occasions and have failed to provide explanations on a number of important matters. for example, the council refused to inform the european parliament of past and future costs and expenditure relating to buildings, and in particular the costly residence palace project. furthermore, it has not yet explained the increasing rate of unspent cash, the transfer of liabilities and the state of modernisation of the administration in these bodies. the european parliament is the institution with the exclusive right to grant discharge. if the council is going to ignore this fact, it is as if it were undermining the democratic principles on which the european union is founded. if the european parliament does not have sufficient information at its disposal, it will not be able to exercise this power. it is unthinkable that, at a time when the european budget is stretched to the limit and when most taxpayers are in a difficult financial situation, representatives of the member states should behave so irresponsibly. the european council and the council must be subject to the same scrutiny as all the other european institutions. i sincerely hope that this refusal to grant discharge will lead both the european council and the council to adopt a more accommodating attitude towards the sharing of information on the implementation of the general budget and that the necessary formal dialogue will be re-established as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision and a resolution pertaining to the eu general budget. as a result of the decision, the secretary-general of the council is refused the grant of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. the resolution insists that an effective budgetary control exercise requires cooperation between parliament and the council and make several calls to the council. it asks for a thorough written explanation detailing the total amount of appropriations used in the purchase of the ‘residence palace’ building and for information on council’s process of administrative modernisation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the refusal to grant the discharge for the year 2013 to the european council and the council. the institutions have not been granted the discharge for several years now and rightly so. i consider it unacceptable that one of the main european institutions, whose decisions influence millions of people in europe, does not act in a clear and transparent manner, lacks integrity and considers itself to be above the union’s rules. the council and the european council have repeatedly refused to cooperate with the discharge authority, they ignore the questions posed by the authority with regard to regularity of their budget implementation, they are unwilling to reveal the expenses related to their building projects and they were not able to adopt the internal whistleblowing rules. therefore, i voted against the discharge for the council and the european council and i urge the institution to take this matter rather seriously.
in writing. ‒ in light of the recent ebola epidemic in western africa, i welcomed this report which provides clear directions for the measures the european union should take to prevent a future crisis of such an extent. the eu, who and other stakeholders must develop capacities in the least developed countries which could promptly respond to epidemics at the initial stage.
in writing. - today we discussed a report that i attach particular importance to because of my medical profession. the ebola outbreak in africa last year showed that health systems in the most affected countries show huge gaps. the most affected countries, with around 80% of their citizens living in extreme poverty, were already among the countries with the lowest human development index according to the undp survey data before the outbreak and had the highest mortality rates in the world for premature babies, adults and children under five, mainly due to treatable diseases. i am convinced of the need to address social inequalities in order to build a strong and sustainable public health system, and in this regard i welcome the idea of introducing publicly funded universal health care, provided free of charge at the point of delivery, and i join the urgent call on the commission to present, together with partner countries and other donors, as soon as possible a programme for the introduction of universal health insurance, which would guarantee the distribution of health risks. this crisis has also been systemic in terms of its global management. it took the international community a long time to grasp the gravity of the situation and to respond. we have no choice but to learn from the past crisis and take measures to prevent its recurrence. i voted for the report.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament today approved legislation to further support countries affected by the humanitarian crisis caused by the worst ebola outbreak in history. the main countries concerned are sierra leone, liberia and guinea. other assistance should focus on strengthening health and education systems in affected countries, in addition to the fight against the disease itself. the european union has invested €1.2 billion in the fight against ebola since the crisis began. but as it turned out, the concrete steps came too late. the epidemic has taken and is taking a huge toll not only on patients, but also on their families. this is why we need to learn as much as possible from the developments and take concrete action in the future on how the eu should behave in similar situations. the focus now must be on providing adequate support for research and prevention of ebola and other similarly dangerous diseases.
in writing. i supported today's report by the european parliament on the ebola crisis. i believe that its subtitle 'learning for the future and how to improve healthcare systems in developing countries to prevent future crises' sums up well the european parliament's intention to take stock of this experience and to focus development aid efforts on helping to stabilise the fragile health systems of not only the epidemic-stricken african countries. this effort to increase assistance to the health sector must be accompanied by the fight against poverty and the promotion of an efficient and non-corrupt public administration. this is about saving lives, but it is also about minimising the complications that any similar epidemic would also cause in the member states in the areas of tourism, transport in general, mobilisation of public health and safety institutions, etc. it is therefore not just about the conditions at the source of the outbreak and the removal of the causes, but also about the preparedness of the competent authorities of the member states and their sufficient coordination within the eu in the event of an outbreak.
in writing. ‒ i supported adoption of this report that follows up on the ebola crisis that broke out in sierra leone, liberia and guinea in march 2014. the report argues that health and education systems of these countries suffer from structural shortcomings and the ebola crisis is therefore systemic. regarding the long-term response, the report recommends that the eu should focus first on development assistance, which would need to include investment in the health sector to promote resilience, particularly as regards the organisation and management of health systems, health monitoring and information, medicine supply systems, domestic governance and state-building.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which aims to summarise the lessons learned during the ebola epidemic in africa. it is important to learn from the failures of the past in order to be able to face similar epidemics in the future. i agree that the eu should focus on structural changes in the health system to allow for a more effective response in the event of an epidemic and to set up rapid response teams to similar health risks when providing development aid. i also support the idea of a marshall plan to jump-start the economies of developing countries, because only strong economies can afford to increase health spending.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that we need to assure our citizens that we do care about the interests of consumers, car owners, but also all of us who are exposed to air pollution. the resolution calls on the commission and other stakeholders involved, notably in the member states, to adopt measures and take concrete actions which will quickly restore the confidence of consumers, which i consider is currently of utmost importance. also, we have to bear in mind that this cannot be done while putting too much pressure on the car manufacturers, as they are part of the solution.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a joint motion for a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector. i think there are a number of ways of looking at this phenomenon. in any event, any fraud with emission limits must be condemned and thoroughly investigated. furthermore, the protection of consumers must be borne in mind, who must retain the right to choose the product of their choice depending on the complex technical characteristics communicated to them. we also have to realize that the automotive industry is dominated by large multinational companies, so it's not just an eu problem. it should also be taken into account that the automotive industry in some member states makes a major contribution to promoting employment and innovation growth. the automotive supply industry is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises. the economic strength of many regions in europe is based on the automotive industry and automotive supply industries. the current scandal threatens to seriously damage the reputation of the entire industry. we must try to remedy this situation, but preferably with a balanced approach that does not damage the automotive sector any further. i think that the text presented today is not balanced in this respect and that some of the objectives it contains are not achievable, so i abstained in the final vote on the resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry because i am one of those who are calling for the current dieselgate emissions scandal to be taken to its logical conclusion and for clear ways of improving the situation to be found. it is therefore appropriate to call on the commission to adopt and implement without delay a new test cycle based on real-world emission measurements. in this respect, however, i was not pleasantly surprised by the recently announced agreement between the member states and the commission on the setting of relatively soft conditions for newly introduced car emission tests (this is the link between road tests and laboratory tests). i'm not sure this is the right way to restore consumer confidence in diesel engines and the automotive industry in general and to ensure the air quality that can be achieved with today's state of the art technology.
in writing. i supported today's european parliament resolution on dieselgate, which clearly condemns the false information and customer fraud perpetrated by volkswagen. the manipulation of information on their cars' emissions has a major impact on the environment and on the health of citizens, and it is important to remember that limits are not there to burden manufacturers, but to protect the environment for all of us. of course, the whole affair will not go without significant economic repercussions not only for the carmaker in question, but possibly for the entire industry, suppliers and employees. in particular, i find the impact on staff redundancies unacceptable. therefore, the whole case must be properly investigated and the real culprits punished. i would like to emphasize again that this case is not a priori about intimidation or punishment, but about the awareness that by any kind of deception we are dealing with ourselves first. the eu must send a clear signal ahead of the upcoming climate summit in paris, where it is set to persuade other countries to make further environmental commitments, that it is capable of meeting its own commitments not just on paper but in practice.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector because it responds appropriately to the unacceptable behaviour of some car manufacturers. the statement calls on companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to fully cooperate with the authorities in all investigations, and condemns the fact that many consumers have been misled by false information about the emissions produced by their vehicles. i personally requested that clear provisions be inserted to address the significant concerns about the potential impacts of the emissions allowance on the entire supply chain and the rank and file, and i welcome the fact that the resulting text is clear on these issues as well. on the contrary, i did not support several provisions which, in my view, are not based on demonstrable facts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on emissions from the automotive sector. i believe that in the future, practices such as the manipulation of software to circumvent emission limits should be avoided. i believe it is necessary to introduce new testing procedures. however, the process of introducing new procedures must be based on a realistic timetable for the transition from existing measurement methods to new ones, not only in terms of legislation but also with regard to the appropriate equipment of the approval and type-approval authorities. it is necessary to introduce a new test cycle based on measurement of emissions in real-use conditions. these measures are intended, in particular, to ensure a level playing field for all operators operating in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution which strongly condemns the fraud by volkswagen, in which the company admitted to having installed defeat devices in at least 11 million of the diesel vehicles it has sold worldwide. the resolution urges the company to take responsibility and fully cooperate with the authorities in the investigations. it expresses disappointment that it was the usa who first found out and that the eu lacks enforcement of its internal market regulation. the resolution calls on the commission to launch immediately an investigation into the use of defeat devices as regards both the pollutant limit values and advertised co2 g/km. furthermore, it urges the commission to adopt and implement the new real driving emissions test cycle for all pollutants without any further delay and to bring it into force for regulatory purposes within six months. seeking to restore the confidence of consumers, it calls for the establishment of eu-level surveillance.
the draftsman of the committee on budgetary control. madam president, i am pleased that the draft budget respects the need to increase funding for an adequate response to the immigration crisis, which has a huge impact on countries inside and outside the european union. some european agencies already play a key role in this area, and more will have such means to do their job. however, even in the current situation, it is necessary to ensure proper budget implementation and to use the funds in accordance with the principle of efficiency and effectiveness. the european commission must regularly control and monitor the use of funds in this area and ensure that all funds are used in a transparent and transparent manner to avoid an increased error rate. the commission must also provide regular impact assessments of its action in the area of migration and asylum. member states must supply the relevant data and the commission must strictly sanction any incorrect or false information provided by the member states concerned.
madam president, i wonder how much this debate differs from the last one that we had, or from the one before that. i am afraid that the next debate will be a repetition. one time it will be about rockets, then terrorist attacks and then new settlements. each of us will have his or her own perception of what is going on. i say to ms mogherini that i very much appreciate what she said in terms of the responsibility of prime minister netanyahu and president abbas. we need to see delivery from both of them. i wonder also, in this respect, when finally president abbas will be able to administrate gaza. having said this, in terms of evaluation of what is going on, i very much agree with you. i also very much appreciate what you said in terms of the three elements and the entry point. my only question is: if one, the other or both fails on delivery, do we have the courage, the ability and, the unity to provide the right reaction? i believe we have the means and that we should have the other elements as well. i very much trust in your leadership in that, together with the quartet, we will manage to get these two sides to enter direct negotiations. one has already declared readiness, the second one should do so soon as possible. unless they deliver, we should have another proper answer.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, there are not many places in the world where the situation is worse than in south sudan, where people suffer so much. therefore, i also welcome the agreement on the resolution of the conflict signed in mid—august. it is an ambitious agreement which seeks to secure a permanent ceasefire and to put an end to impunity but also to manage better the country’s oil revenues. however, although the content is good, we all know that the worrying part is that commitment to this deal it is extremely weak and the fighting continues. political leaders in south sudan clearly do not care much about their own population but rather, i am afraid, about their villas and bank accounts outside the country. i believe that a sustainable deal on ceasefire and other elements will only be achieved if we use the threat of targeted sanctions against the political leaders who do not stick to the agreement. the eu should reconsider imposing the arms embargo as well. on the positive side, i am glad that the african union has released today the report of its commission of inquiry on south sudan. my questions to you, vice president/high representative, are what is the eu strategy to make sure south sudan’s warring parties stick to the agreement, and not only to the ceasefire agreement but also to the other provisions regarding impunity and oil management? also, you mentioned civil society, but does the eu plan to work closely with local grass—roots organisations to monitor the effective implementation of the agreement? and again, what is the strategy here?
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez, for a really excellent job, because he has tried to take account of the common positions of all the groups across parliament. so much for the necessary thanks, and i would like to point out that, as regards mr lópez's report, the purpose of this report was to set out guidelines for the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation, the current wording of which leaves the european commission a fairly large margin of interpretation. this is in itself very unfortunate given the possible consequences for cohesion policy actors. i would just like to remind you that the european parliament was well aware of this when it adopted the general regulation last term, and the form of article 23 was then critically accepted by the european parliament and the commission promised to issue the following guidelines. our joint effort in drawing up the report on these guidelines was to identify the space in which the european commission can operate in the application of article 23, in particular to identify the risks that arise and how to respond to them. the key requirement is that the commission should exercise the utmost discretion in applying this provision and that reprogramming should only take place in cases of genuine urgency. local and regional authorities should always be given a say. in the draft report we also mention that the council in the special cohesion policy configuration should be responsible for taking decisions under article 23. last but not least, the european parliament should be involved in the application of article 23 in the form of oversight, which is certainly an incentive for the future.
madam president, i would like to thank the the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the european parliament the opportunity to initiate a reform of the rules under which elections to the european parliament are held throughout the union, and i am pleased that, thanks in particular to the efforts of my colleagues on the afco committee, we are now taking advantage of this opportunity. i believe that the intention behind the various parts of the report presented should be supported. strengthening the democratic principles of european elections is a prerequisite for a positive perception of european elections, which will hopefully also lead to greater voter turnout and a positive perception of the union as a whole. as an assembly of directly elected representatives of the citizens, the european parliament has a great deal of potential to develop europeanism and a positive perception of the union, and it is certainly in the interest of all of us not to disappoint the expectations of our electors. i therefore support the harmonisation of electoral rules which will enhance this european dimension.
madam president, i was rather surprised by the debate, because the question of the electoral threshold is often mentioned. i fully respect the example of germany, where the german constitutional court has ruled that the 5% threshold is unacceptable. but i want to say that in the czech republic, the constitutional court also ruled on the five percent threshold and ruled that it was constitutional to keep it. there is an example at the moment of two completely different decisions by two constitutional courts from two member states. and i think that illustrates exactly the problem that we're in. the idea that the constitutional law of individual national states would implement extremely detailed rules for elections is, in my view, disparate and i think it adds to the tension which is not desirable. i'm not a fan of creating absolute common rules, so i'd be a little cautious about this report.
madam president, i was surprised by the contributions of some of my colleagues, because judging the judiciary by specific judgments, whether it is good or bad, i do not know if it is a good way to respect the principle of impartiality and independence of the judiciary. i think that the reform proposed, or rather the compromise reached by parliament in its discussions with the council, will not be the answer to the definition of the subject which the judges of the european court of justice have given us. and i confess that i am very sceptical about my vote tomorrow because i cannot imagine supporting this reform as it is being pushed here, because even the judges of the court of justice will certainly not be happy about it.
for the s&d group. mr. chairman, i would have signed off on everything the rapporteur said if we were in the environment committee after the vote. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs prepared a proposal that respected the food safety requirements of european consumers, addressed concerns about the use of nanomaterials in food. a proposal which respected the right of consumers to be informed about what they eat and therefore defined transitional, transitional measures concerning the labelling of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals or their descendants. it's as simple as that, food safety and the consumer's right to know. the reactions of european consumer organisations clearly and unequivocally say that consumers want both. and then what happened? during the trialogue, the requirement that food produced using nanotechnology should not be authorised until methods to assess its safety are available was lost, and those methods are not available. and even the threshold for the content of nanomaterials proposed by the european food safety authority has disappeared. i do not know if the european commission always wants to respect efsa's opinions in this way. ergo, the compromise proposal does not guarantee the safety of new foods for consumers. the trilogy also lost the idea of labelling foodstuffs derived from clones or their descendants. ergo, this bill tramples, in my opinion, on the right of consumers to know what they're eating. of course, in no negotiation can anyone achieve everything. of course, there must be compromises between the european council, the commission and parliament, but food safety and the right of consumers to information simply cannot be compromised. if the european commission and the council want to make such compromises, the european parliament should not, and so we are proposing again in the plenary eight key amendments to address the shortcomings of the compromise reached in the trials on the use of nanomaterials and on the origin of food from cloned animals. i would like to remind you that european consumers have a right to safe food, they have a right to information, and we as parliament have an obligation to enable them to exercise that right.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft union budget for 2016 as it realistically reflects the eu's current priorities. i am also very pleased that the so-called pilot project, which i co-presented, was also approved under the eu budget. the project will address consumer empowerment and education on product safety and market surveillance in the digital single market and will be funded with eur 325 000. it aims to help consumers to be aware of the risks associated with electronic commerce and to avoid them as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ the report on the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 sets it at eur 146 billion in payment appropriations, which is an increase of eur 4 billion compared with the council position. the increase in appropriations reflects two key political priorities of the eu – tackling the migration and refugee crisis and boosting competitiveness. apart from expenditures on asylum and immigration, it will finance for example the cosme program for small and middle size enterprises, the research programme horizon 2020 and mechanisms for the interconnection of europe. in my, opinion, these objectives are well justified, and the dedication of more resources is crucial if we want to implement sustainable solutions to the migration crisis. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we have adopted the eu budget for 2016 in this form. i voted in favour of the amendment which asks the european commission to start looking at the single seat of the european parliament and to present a road map for this initiative. i think that moving parliament 12 times a year is completely pointless and financially inefficient.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the eu budget for next year is sufficient to deal with issues such as the migration crisis. as the alde draftsperson on the libe opinion to the budget, i pushed for more funding in order to better secure the eu’s borders and to address security concerns. i am pleased that parliament as a whole backed the increase to the frontex budget as well as for the european agenda on security. this is a step towards better managing the current crisis.
in writing. an adequate european budget is a prerequisite for the correct and continuous implementation of european programmes. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council's position on next year's budget. it is no longer possible for representatives of member states, despite the promises they have made to the european parliament in the past, to jeopardise the smooth implementation of programmes that benefit their own citizens. i therefore supported the increase of funding for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, programmes which were negatively affected by the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, so that the agreed objectives could be met. although decisions have been taken in the past that seemed rational in the context of the time, the union can no longer afford to continue to waste resources that could be better invested elsewhere. that is why i also supported the proposal to draw up a timetable for the introduction of a single seat for parliament. i voted against the use of the european budget to finance bullfights in which animals are killed, as these brutal activities have no place in modern europe. i supported the increase in funding for health and environmental programmes because their importance was again ignored by the council. i did not support the call for the commission to adopt budgetary measures to ensure a more balanced solidarity between member states in the refugee crisis, because this initiative goes against all democratic principles and the principle of solidarity itself.
in writing. voting on the eu budget is one of the european parliament's most responsible tasks, as parliament has the final say on the eu budget. the adopted proposal will now be the subject of a conciliation procedure with the european council, followed by the final adoption of the compromise proposal at the november plenary. i supported all the sensible proposals that led to the avoidance of wasteful spending, such as the one on the ep's single seat in brussels, which would save millions of euros paid for moving permanently between brussels and strasbourg. on the contrary, money must be added where it is needed, notably to tackle the migration crisis at the moment, but also to support employment in the eu, especially for young people. the parliament thus allocated eur 1.16 billion more to supporting the management of migration than in the commission's original proposal. eu sanctions against russia help to fulfil the eu's strategic objectives, however, i consider it important that the eu is able to address the impact of these sanctions on its own most affected sectors. i therefore supported the proposal to increase the budgetary chapter for farmers whose existence is threatened by the reciprocal ban on food imports into russia. lastly, as a member of the itre committee, i am pleased with the increase in the budget for horizon 2020, as we fought hard in the committee to ensure that this programme did not lose important financial flows to finance the juncker investment plan.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against the council decision to increase the number of judges in the court of justice of the european union, as this measure would imply more cost to the eu budget than benefit to the efficiency of the court.
in writing. i did not support the increase of 28 judges to the general court, i.e. to double the number, because i am convinced, on the basis of the statistical data available, that such a increase is far in excess of the actual needs of the general court. i do not question the need for reform of the court as such, but i reject doubling the number of judges simply because the member states have not been able to agree on a rotation mechanism in addition to the realistic and corresponding increase in the agenda of 12 judges. i am generally not in favour of solutions that are inefficient, and this is unfortunately one of them, and it is not good for the citizens' trust in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted to change the status of the court of justice of the european union. this change will allow each member state to have a second judge. the increase in the number of judges will enable us to reduce the overload of cases per judge and thus also to reduce the length of proceedings, which currently amounts to five years, considerably. this will enable the european union to reduce costs, such as compensating the parties for the dispute's unreasonably long litigation. the czech republic is committed to the principle of equal representation of countries in the institutions of the european parliament. this change will enable the general court to better cover the different legal cultures that exist across the member states of the union. the increase in the number of judges will make the work of the tribunal more effective.
in writing. ‒ the i could not support the draft regulation amending the statute of the court of justice in relation to the general court for political reasons as well as legal reasons which i shall not mention here. the court of justice should be strengthened slightly because there has been a certain increase in the scope of the council's position at first reading, which was also agreed by the european parliament in 2014, namely the strengthening of 12 judges. 28 judges is too many, 1 judge costs european taxpayers just under eur 1 billion a year. the only reason for increasing the number of judges of the general court by 28 instead of 12 is that the member states in the council were unable to agree on a rotation mechanism. however, such a rotation mechanism could be found among the 11 advocates-general of the court. so this is a failure of the council, which is to be paid for by the taxpayers. the proposal contains in point 8a of the preamble support for the idea of the objective of gender balance among judges, which objective means that specific candidates will be subject to discrimination on the basis of sex, and therefore i cannot agree with it. moreover, such an objective will cause difficulties, especially in smaller member states. we need the best judges for europe, regardless of their gender. the reform was intended to ensure the proper functioning of the court in the changed circumstances. however, there are no arguments for increasing the number of judges by 16 more than the court of first instance originally requested.
in writing. ‒ parliament has approved a reform of the eu general court, doubling the current number of its judges. reforming the court, which is part of the european court of justice, is necessary in order to respond better to the permanent increase in the number of cases. however, the increase in the number of judges by 28 was motivated by eu member states’ interests in wishing to have as many judges as other countries. taking this into consideration, i opposed the increase for budgetary reasons and because the proposal makes no provision for a proper impact assessment.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of increasing the number of judges of the general court by 12 as proposed in this report. i consider that this increase is not necessary, it would not lead to greater efficiency and would not speed up the processing of cases. the fact that the member states are unable to agree on a workable rotation system cannot, after all, justify the court having 28 judges.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of this resolution which seeks to amend regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fishing in the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement area. in adopting it, parliament and the council agreed on the transposition into eu law of several recommendations made by the gfcm agreement. this will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation, focused on promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at sustainable levels and at low risk of collapse. the resolution also includes a statement on granting derogations to member states for the use of trawl nets and gill-net fisheries in the black sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal. while i believe it should be for each member state to decide if it wishes to allow gmos to be grown on its soil, i cannot support a measure that would damage the functioning of the single market and which could set the precedent of allowing for the reintroduction of non-tariff barriers within the union itself. the commission should withdraw this proposal.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to allow member states to unilaterally restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food or feed authorised at eu level on their territory. i had several reasons for this attitude. firstly, it would create a barrier that could endanger the internal market; secondly, it would be virtually unenforceable, since the principle of free movement of goods within the eu implies the absence of internal borders and therefore of border controls; and thirdly, it would threaten the development of agriculture, which is heavily dependent on the import of genetically modified feed such as soybeans. lastly, the legal uncertainty of the concept of 'use' would result in legal uncertainty for the parties concerned. i do not think that consumer health protection is a valid argument either, because genetically modified food is not available on the european market.
in writing. as a member of the european socialist group, i naturally do not want the cultivation and distribution of genetically modified food to spread throughout the eu, where 60% of the population believe that gmos are harmful and dangerous for the future. but the legislation in question must be worked out with the utmost precision. the current proposal, on the other hand, was poorly conceived overall and needs to be reworked. the right to ban or restrict gmos already exists in the case of the cultivation of these crops, but this is necessarily limited to the territory of that state. on the other hand, a sales ban could lead to the introduction of additional border controls or an overall restriction of cross-border trade. in the document discussed, the commission did not put forward any plan to preserve the sovereign right of states to approach the issue without the consequence of adversely affecting imports and the internal market. the commission's planned procedure of agreeing on the existing proposal directly with the member states should not be accepted by them. a new proposal ensuring the safe and efficient functioning of the single internal market must be submitted.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal of the european parliament and the council on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. in my view, it should be for the state to decide on its territory whether to use the feed or food so modified. it is therefore easy for the european parliament to support this proposal and thus give room to the member states of the union in this area. however, even these measures must be compatible with the internal market and international obligations, such as those towards the world trade organisation. the measures taken by the states must be justified and supported by the relevant grounds and, of course, must be proportionate and non-discriminatory. i believe that this proposal will lead to greater satisfaction for the member states, because they will be able to regulate the use of genetically modified food and feed on their own territory.
in writing. ‒ today, all genetically modified organisms need authorisation before they can be placed on the eu market. however, a qualified majority among the member states has never been reached either in favour of or against any authorisation proposal put forward by the commission. the commission has therefore concluded that the legal framework for decision making on genetically modified (gm) food and feed needs to be adapted. the member states would thus be allowed to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, despite it being authorised at eu level. i voted in favour of amendment 1 calling for the rejection of the commission’s proposal. by this vote i expressed my serious concerns about the proposal. the commission proposed more flexibility for the member states to limit or ban the use of gm food and feed on their territory. under this regulation, member states could block the free circulation of feed, which would have a negative impact on the internal market (in violation of article 34 tfeu).
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at first reading because i believe it is the right response to technological progress, which has led to the emergence and development of many innovative new foods that are not regulated by the current regulation. i see the benefits of introducing a centralised authorisation procedure for novel foods in the eu, which should lead to a reduction in the costs of the authorisation procedure. the current widespread practice of double-checking means an average cost of between eur 20 000 and eur 45 000, which is a considerable burden, and unnecessarily high, for smes in particular.
in writing. ‒ to keep up with technological development and innovation, the eu considered it necessary to update the rules on novel foods. the current legislation dates back to 1997, therefore food and food ingredients which were not consumed in the eu to a significant degree before the entry into force of the current regulation are considered to be ‘novel’. the commission’s proposal from december 2013 brought several changes compared to the 1997 regulation (e.g. a centralised authorisation process and the removal of specific categories of food from the scope of the regulation). the agreement with council brought, for instance, improved transparency in the applications system, the re-introduction of the food categories in updated form and some new categories as well as safety assessment using the most up-to-date test methods. given the length and complexity of the examination of the draft regulation on novel foods, i support the agreement reached with council as an acceptable compromise and i hope for the swift implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013 the commission presented a proposal on the directive on national emissions reduction commitments. despite improvements in air quality in the eu in recent decades, we are still far from achieving the quality levels we need. the commission proposed a number of annual reduction objectives for several pollutants (including the transposition of the gothenburg protocol, 2025 indicative targets and 2030 binding targets, aimed at achieving 70% of the ‘maximum technically feasible reduction’ identified in an impact assessment) as well as the addition of pm2,5 and methane to the list of pollutants. while i am very much in favour of limiting air pollution, in order to protect the health of eu citizens and the environment, i am opposed to strengthening the reduction targets and making the intermediate 2025 targets binding. i voted in favour of the deletion of methane and mercury from the scope of the directive and i voted against higher reduction targets proposed by the committee on environment, public health and food safety, as these could have a significant impact on eu industry. the higher targets for 2030 were voted down; the inclusion of methane and ammonia and the binding 2025 targets were approved. therefore i decided to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this scandal has highlighted a fundamental flaw in the introduction of any new measures. in this particular case of emission measurements in the automotive sector, the question of whether it is realistic to achieve these values and how they can be enforced, if any, should have been examined from the outset. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european commission should take a closer look at this scandal and, above all, review the current measures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european citizens' initiative, which i consider to be an important tool for citizens' participation in the eu decision-making process. the commission should review the wording of article 10 (c) of regulation no 211/2011 in this context, in order to ensure a proper follow-up to a successful european citizens' initiative, including a debate on the european citizens' initiative in parliament's plenary and a subsequent vote. it would also help to improve the functioning of this instrument if the commission started preparing a legal act on successful european citizens' initiatives within 12 months of receiving them. these changes could help to increase citizens' confidence in the eu and its decision-making processes.
‒ the european citizens' initiative is the first tool to allow citizens to participate directly in shaping european policies and legislation by inviting the european commission to prepare a specific legislative proposal (the initiative must have the support of at least 1 million citizens from at least 7 eu member states). it complements the right of citizens to petition parliament and to refer matters to the european ombudsman. as a social democrat, i am in favour of strengthening the elements of direct democracy, and therefore i very much welcome the existence of this possibility, as i see that much needs to be improved in this field. this is demonstrated by the fact that only three citizens' initiatives have reached the final stage since the launch of this option in 2012. the european parliament adopted a resolution in september on the first ever successful right2water initiative. at the october plenary i supported this report, which proposes a number of concrete improvements, for example on the online signature collection system and the overall simplification of the system (language support, contact points, etc.). i am very pleased that the report includes a call for the age limit to be lowered to 16. i believe that young people should be involved in public life as early as possible and i regularly assure them during my regular meetings with secondary school students that they often follow events in the european union with great attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european citizens' initiative tabled by my colleague from the committee on petitions. this proposal will be a tool for all citizens of the european union who wish to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. it is desirable that citizens themselves should be involved in the running of the union. i therefore welcome this proposal and i hope it will help people with initiative to enter into democratic discussions. it is the first instrument of participatory democracy in the european union where an initiative can be launched on the basis of one million signatures from at least one quarter of the member states. it's clear that active people want to express their opinions. in my view, they should therefore be able to participate in the initiation of legislative proposals. i believe this change will have a positive impact on the field of citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a tool to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. it has the potential to strengthen civil society activities and the concept of european citizenship, in particular at transnational level. since the launch of this option, 51 such initiatives have been launched by european citizens. none of them led to the creation of new legislation. i therefore supported the report, which gives a detailed assessment of the experience of the european citizens' initiative so far.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european citizens' initiative (eci) report because i consider this instrument of european citizens' participation in the eu public sphere to be very important and beneficial. it is a tool for all eu citizens, who can launch their initiative in different member states at once and thus highlight areas or problems that require new legislative action. as soon as the eoi regulation entered into force, it became clear that this was a tool that the public wanted to use. unfortunately, over time, the process has also proved to be unnecessarily complex, imposing unnecessary demands on the initiators of the initiative, and a number of rules governing the process are not clearly defined. the european parliament now intends to draw attention to these problems and call for their correction. breaking the european commission's exclusivity for legislative initiative seems too revolutionary a demand at the moment, but i am convinced that the eoi can still be a meaningful and useful tool if existing shortcomings are addressed and the eoi becomes more user-friendly. the ep's role in this process is irreplaceable, as it is the only eu body that directly represents the citizens of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i share the view that the functioning of the european citizens’ initiative (eci) needs improving. the report aims to make it more user-friendly and to eliminate some of the obstacles that complicate organising an initiative. the eci has been in place since 1 april 2012, and throughout those three years the commission has noted 51 initiatives, only three of which were deemed admissible. none of them has yet been followed by legislation – a situation that points to weaknesses in the instrument in its current form. the purpose of the eci is to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in launching legislative initiatives. amending it should enhance the mobilisation of civil society and facilitate the process of organising initiatives.
‒ in the current security situation in europe, it is more important than ever that the eu works closely with its immediate neighbours to tackle regional problems. the european union's strategy for the adriatic and ionian region will be very useful in this respect, which is why i voted in favour of it. from the security perspective, the key aspect of this strategy is to support the diversification of the eu's energy resources. russian aggression against other sovereign states in europe means that the eu cannot afford to rely on russia as its main gas supplier. russia regularly exploits the eu's dependence on its resources and blackmails the eu's eastern states by raising prices and suspending supplies. it is therefore important to support projects such as the ionian-adriatic pipeline, which will bring gas from the caucasus through turkey, as part of the eusair strategy. not only will this reduce our dependence on russia, but it will also increase cooperation with the caucasus states, which are not protected by nato against russia and need our support. eusair can also serve as an inspiration for similar regional cooperation projects in risk areas such as the caucasus in the future, bringing its states closer to eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that scrutinises the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair), introduced by the commission on 17 june 2014. it is a third macro-regional eu strategy, together with the one for the baltic sea region and for the danube region. the eusair covers eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and non-eu countries, all of which have either ‘candidate’ (albania, montenegro and serbia) or ‘potential candidate’ membership status (bosnia and herzegovina). the aim of the strategy is to foster mutual cooperation among the countries and pursue their prosperity and sustainable development. the report sets out priorities in the fields of blue growth focusing on marine governance; regional interconnectedness, mainly in terms of transport and energy; quality of environment; and tourism.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is paramount to the success of the european union, and the europe 2020 strategy is a helpful tool to continue making the eu better. i would like to reiterate that this tool is a long term growth and jobs strategy to help push the eu forward in terms of employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education, and fighting poverty and social exclusion. i would also like to point out that although the broad strokes have been agreed upon, the implementation is still in the early stages due to some delays. i would like to stress that we cannot afford any more delays with a topic as important as this one. i believe that by working together we can ensure full coherence and synergy between all instruments within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed adoption of this report, which is the first european parliament’s report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing especially on the cohesion policy dimension of it. with a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020, the cohesion policy is the eu’s main investment growth and development policy and it is therefore important to examine it rigorously. based on the review, the commission is expected to submit by the end of 2015 its proposals for developing it further. in this report, parliament calls on the commission to provide information on the concrete contribution made to the europe 2020 objectives by cohesion policy and demands that the review is focused on better interlinking the strategy’s five objectives. it also notes the importance of the new eu investment instrument, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which will support the mobilisation of up to eur 315 billion in investments and regrets that it is not clearly linked to the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which comes in response to the commission guidelines on the application of the measures linking effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds to sound economic governance according to article 23 of regulation (eu) 1303/2013 on the common provisions (the cpr). the guidelines pertain to a reprogramming and a suspension of payments which are not compulsory. the report states that the achievement of the esi funds’ policy objectives should not be hindered by the economic governance mechanisms and that article 23 of the cpr should only be used as a last resort to contribute to an efficient implementation of the esi funds. therefore, the report calls on the commission to deliver a comprehensive analysis of all available options other than the application of article 23 cpr to address issues that may trigger a reprogramming request.
mr president, commissioner, i recently learned from eurostat statistics that the main entry point for illegal migrants into the european union is not the balkan route, but the international airport. given the current information about the incredible numbers of refugees in the mediterranean and on the borders of hungary, slovenia and croatia, this information literally surprised me. but it is true and it is a direct consequence of the fact that the european union has no functioning uniform system of registration of entry and exit from the european union and that there is no registration of the length of stay of the person concerned. these illegal immigrants are the result of nothing less than our own inability to control who moves on our territory and when. that is why i consider this smart border package to be essential and a lengthy revision or extension of the negotiations will only make this situation worse.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the internal security of the european union is becoming increasingly important, as is the security of european citizens themselves. i do not know if cepol alone can solve the whole situation, but i am sure that quality and continuous training of police officers in law enforcement will not only lead to a more effective fight against cross-border and organised crime, but also to better cooperation between national police forces across the european union. and it's not just about enforcing the law the hard way, but also about training police officers in soft skills, such as privacy, data protection, the rights of victims of crime, or the rights of children, the disabled and the disabled. cepol is undoubtedly an agency which we must support and create the conditions for its functioning to be as efficient as possible.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, let me wish claude moraes a speedy recovery and thank him for this excellent report. this has been a topic of debate in the european parliament for several years. unfortunately, i have not seen much progress, even after our committee's resolution in may of this year. personally, i think there's nothing to wait for. we need not debate whether or not the protection of european union citizens from mass electronic surveillance is sufficient. it's not enough. this is a very urgent problem, and i regret that neither the european commission nor the member states are willing to take it seriously. in this respect, i am very disappointed by the lack of response and inaction on the part of the european commission. and i believe that at least these questions will spur her to greater activity.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, when we went to launch the europe 2020 strategy i saw it as a chance. to be honest, i think that we missed the opportunity, and i will tell you why. for me, the strategy is a document that really focuses on absolutely key issues, provides the necessary means, provides tools and monitors, creates benchmarks and has some kind of internal review. in fact, what we got out of europe 2020 was, if not shopping list, a christmas tree. everyone had to be happy. everyone contributed, and we again created a compromise. i really appreciate what you have said, that the strategy has met certain objectives, and that it did help. you mentioned guiding eu spending: i think if we look at efsi it also reflects that. but i would also like to emphasise what you have said, and that is that you will be preparing a longer-term vision for next year. this is once again an opportunity, but i think that this time we cannot afford to miss the opportunity. we should be looking for absolutely key priorities – a limited range – create the resources, have the right tools and have the courage. also, when you speak of ownership on behalf of the european council, i could not agree more. but what we have today is a strategy which was too much owned by the european council. i know that the commission missed out on the opportunity to be a little bit more pushy, courageous and address the topical issues, but then the european council created a document about which, shortly after it was approved, colleagues both from the commission and the council kept telling me ‘we did not want that! this is not a good document’, and we need to avoid that situation. so my plea would be to focus on the key issues, both on growth and creating jobs, adjusted to the needs of this year – post-recession, post-crisis – to tackle exactly the areas that will contribute to growth. some of them were mentioned by colleagues; some of them might not have been mentioned. i would invite you to enter into a real dialogue with us in preparing it, because i think that it does not have to be just ownership of the european council, it has to be a co-ownership by the european parliament, and we will come to you with concrete ideas.
mr president, i would just like to start by expressing my admiration that the commissioner is here all the time, while some members are raising questions and criticisms and then leaving after their contribution. i find it a little disrespectful that they don't even wait for the commissioner's response. i would like to say that the european strategy for growth and jobs obviously needs to be updated. these targets are correctly set, but it is clear that they need to be updated in view of the changed situation. i think we need to connect the growth drivers. we need to strengthen their partnership if we are to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy, and i would point out that the report by mr blanco lópez, which we adopted today, also contains a call for the eu 2020 strategy to remain valid.
mr. chairman, i think we all agree here that we need a little more light in that area of shadow banking, that gray area where banks are unfortunately today. what's been dropped here from colleagues on the right side of the spectrum, separating the speculative side of banking from those classic banking houses, is that i think there's no way. there is no doubt that we really need more transparency in the workings of banks, and i think we really all agreed on that. and we should really suppress the unwanted, very risky speculation that comes with these leverage effects. there, the risk of the system collapsing like a house of cards is undoubtedly much greater. finally, i would like to commend the proposal which takes account of the separation of administrative burdens for smes. i think that's exactly the way we need to go.
mr president, i too welcome the instruments presented by the commissioner here to increase access to finance for businesses. but i think that a very important issue was also raised here by my colleague mr rübig, who also drew attention to the importance of those secondary circumstances which make it difficult for smes to access or grow in the european or global market. it's a secondary default. this is indeed a very crucial issue for threatening the functioning of businesses. it is very easy for businesses to go bankrupt, and i think that is a real problem facing small and mediumsized enterprises. i would also like to point out that the various european support programmes, instead of reducing administrative work, are actually multiplying it. i will give a specific example of the rural development programme, which is intended to serve agricultural entrepreneurs, where the methodology of the programme is 780 pages long. a farmer once told me, "i'd rather do it the old way than read it". i guess that's something to think about, too.
, by: madam president, commissioner, the conclusions of the public hearing on the question of the change between summer and winter time, which took place in march this year, were clear. in the energy field today, there's no reason to save light, it's wasted. the same is true of transportation. but the health consequences, according to a recent study by nine european universities, are numerous. about 20% of europeans suffer from health problems due to the change in time, while the remaining 80% cannot understand that it can cause problems for someone. health problems range from fatigue, drowsiness, and disorientation to digestive disorders, migraines, and depression, to triggering genetic diseases such as obesity and diabetes, as well as heart attacks. for people with autism, this change presents major problems. the direct and indirect costs of health consequences in the eu have been estimated by this research to be as high as a staggering €131 billion. this may mean that eu citizens spend almost as much about eur 140 billion per year on the eu as on the health damage caused by this single directive. the commission's reaction to that public hearing was a press statement stating that the member states had no complaints and that the commission would not deal with such a trifle. the commission therefore considers the health problems of one fifth of europeans to be insignificant. if the research of the 9 universities is correct, then the commission also considers the health damage to the union budget to be a trifle. i find such a statement scandalous. member states may not complain, because they do not suffer from depression or diabetes. but people are complaining. the citizens of the european union complain to us, their representatives in the european parliament. and that must be enough to get the commission to start looking at things seriously. i am therefore pleased to be able to put an oral question to the commission today and to ask it to show that the research carried out by the nine universities is wrong, that there are rational reasons for maintaining the time change, reasons which outweigh the harm to the health of a fifth of the citizens of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, if the european commission were to be voted on again today, i think you would have a question from me on the change in the winter and summer time. and if you answered as you did today, i would seriously consider voting for this commission. i just want people who will fight for the rights of citizens to be commissioners. if half a billion citizens of the european union here say unequivocally that they want to abolish survival, which is useless, then i expect you to respond by taking a serious look at this. commissioner, please, let's stop being ironic and really get down to business on this issue that has a real impact on the health of the citizens of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for holding a substantive debate across the political parties, and i would like the commissioner not to take this as a personal attack on her, but you are here today, commissioner, representing the european commission, and therefore our questions are directed at you. you have heard clearly that there are many citizens and many reasons why we are asking the question whether it is necessary to carry out this mobilization of citizens twice a year and to move the clocks forward by one hour and then back again. i think that at this very moment we could demonstrate that the institutions of the european union are accessible and that we can deal with this technical problem quickly, because there are many other, more important things that people are concerned about that we have to deal with. so let's say you submit a study and we change the policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of drones, which are a new phenomenon where technology has overtaken legislation, and we see the need for a coordinated approach at european level. in areas of critical infrastructure, drone operations should undoubtedly be restricted. the issue of privacy across the spectrum is also relevant. i am pleased that as rapporteur, ms foster has prepared a balanced contribution to the european parliament's debate on how to deal with drones. i am aware that this report does not intend to prejudge the details of the future european rules. i think that's a very characteristic approach and i really appreciate mrs foster's approach to this matter. on the other hand, i would not want to see unnecessary administrative constraints on drones used for individual entertainment or for the development of applications themselves in the future.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, it goes without saying that we support the question and, indeed, we were involved in co-drafting it. what the commissioner has said today shows that the commission is making every effort, and that is definitely appreciated by my group. secondly, commissioner, you have reassured us that the aviation package that will be submitted at the beginning of december will definitely provide the necessary proposal. looking at your three key elements: in relation to back-up supply, there can be no doubt; on technological neutrality, i would say, yes, and obviously we will be looking too at the impact assessment; but the key issue is absolute interoperability. you also spoke about cost-efficient solutions: for me this means not the cheapest but rather the most proportionate and appropriate to deliver. finally, a remark on the question of regularity: we should be aiming at the shortest possible frequencies in this respect. in relation to the spectrum, i think i can fall into line with other colleagues.
mr president, allow me to explain why i voted for the lesson report on the ebola crisis. some of the own-initiative reports we really shouldn't approve of, but this report was very important because tens of thousands of people have been killed by ebola, and this report is very critical of the way the international community has approached the solution. on the other hand, it is clear that the european union has been an important partner, contributing almost eur 2 billion, and will continue to contribute to the solution and, in the future, to the prevention of such epidemics. the important thing is that the solutions have to be systemic. it calls for improvements in public health care in those countries most affected by the virus. i think it's good news.
mr president, i would like to explain why i finally supported the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive industry. the investigation into the whole case is not yet complete, but it is already clear that some car groups will pay for this, even though the volkswagen group, for example, has faced this and taken appropriate steps from the point of view of customers. our political group in the european people's party has called for the development of real-life emissions tests while maintaining sufficient flexibility to enable the automotive industry to adapt technically. i regret that this particular amendment, which would have helped flexibility, was not supported. it is good that the final resolution calls for a globally harmonised test procedure for light vehicles, so that there is no situation where cars meet the standard in europe but do not meet the standard in the usa. it is therefore necessary to avoid these standards becoming the subject of trade wars and competition.
mr president, i would just like to make it clear that there was no final vote on this report yesterday because mrs girling took the liberty of discussing it further. i'm ready to give my report, i just want to make sure it's valid. we voted yesterday on the amendments to this report, but we did not vote on the report as a whole. i will, therefore, make my arguments, if you will give me space again. i'd like to emphasize that i voted for the amendments. i am therefore allowed to comment on the voting procedure, because we voted on amendments which could have changed the committee's proposal. the proposal, as put forward by the envi committee, went further than necessary in the emission limits. and, contrary to the commission's proposal, it also set targets beyond 2020, including the scope of those substances concerned. i was fundamentally against setting targets for methane emissions and strict limits for ammonia, because these measures are unnecessary and harmful to farmers. i am also saddened that the committee has failed to adopt measures or amendments that would allow more flexibility for member states. i just want to point out that in the end we didn't vote on the motion as a whole, and i would not support this motion as a whole in any way.
in writing. ‒ i have been supportive of all proposals aiming to strengthen european police and judicial cooperation. therefore i also voted for this report promoting the legal basis of the european police college and delegating to it the implementation of the new law enforcement training scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol). cepol, the abbreviation for european police college, is the agency responsible for law enforcement training. it has a budget of around eur 8.5 million and its courses are mainly implemented by national police training colleges. the proposed regulation modernises cepol’s legal basis, brings it in line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new law enforcement training scheme proposed by the commission in march 2013. i welcome this proposal, since better trained staff can make a bigger contribution to fighting serious and organised cross-border crime.
in writing. the report on the draft regulation on reporting and transparency in funding transactions follows the green paper and the shadow banking communication published by the commission in 2012 and 2013. the complex and opaque nature of sfts makes it difficult to identify the counterparties and to monitor the concentration of risks. i therefore appreciate that the proposed regulation aims to limit shadow banking and to identify the risks arising from sfts, thereby contributing to the transparency of sft markets and thus of the financial system as a whole. the need for such regulation is also triggered by the fact that, following the structural reform of the union banking sector, activities currently carried out by traditional banks could be shifted to the shadow banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as a way to enhance financial stability in the eu by increasing transparency of activities that qualify as shadow banking. the commission proposal focuses in particular on securities financing transactions (sfts) that comprise a variety of secured transactions with similar economic effects to lending or borrowing securities and commodities and to repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions. the regulation introduces three main measures to improve transparency: monitoring of the build-up of systemic risks; disclosing information to the investors; and setting minimum conditions to be met by the parties involved. an important feature of the draft regulation is that it fosters financial stability without putting an additional administrative burden on the management of funds that channel money into the real economy.
in writing. ‒ although i consider this topic to be extremely important, a number of amendments have deviated the content of the report from its original intention and mandate, namely the protection of citizens' rights, towards a rabid anti-americanism. unfortunately, the news was hijacked by members of parliament who decided to politically exploit it, which degraded it as a whole, and that's why i didn't support it in the final vote.
in writing. i could not support today the resolution on the follow-up to the ep resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens, because it deviated significantly from the original aim, namely to address the protection of eu citizens' rights. the discovery of secret programmes of mass surveillance of eu citizens by the us national security agency (nsa) is undoubtedly a very serious finding. i support the european parliament's work in this regard and believe that unjustified interference with the fundamental rights of eu citizens, guaranteed by the eu charter of fundamental rights, must be avoided. in my view, the rights of european citizens must be protected above all by a high-quality legal framework in this area. this requires deepening dialogue with the other eu institutions, the member states and, last but not least, the us. the european parliament has already made considerable efforts in this area and the other eu institutions need to cooperate fully. but i don't think the right way to improve any cooperation is to make ultimatums and threaten lawsuits or promise impunity to snowden.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed adoption of this resolution against mass surveillance of european citizens, with a view to protecting their fundamental right to privacy. in the resolution from march 2014, parliament called on the us authorities and the member states to prohibit blanket mass surveillance activities and bulk processing of personal data of citizens. in spite of it, revelations of alleged electronic mass surveillance continued. according to wikileaks, there has been a large-scale espionage by the nsa on french political representatives. the resolution touches also on surveillance within the eu, expressing concern about the mass surveillance by german foreign intelligence agency bnd in cooperation with the nsa. the resolution presents a complex analysis of the issue, covering areas such as the data protection package, the eu-us umbrella agreement, safe harbour, the tftp agreement, democratic oversight, private companies, and rebuilding trust, which is an overriding goal of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ politics is the art of compromise. unfortunately, today this quote could not be applied. parliament failed to express its views on eu economic governance – a topic of great importance in the current economic climate. regrettably, i voted against this report as a result of a negotiation process which left the alde proposals for a better and competitive europe unconsidered. we, the liberals, disagree that csr should allow extensive fiscal flexibility which would give a possibility to deviate from the deficit targets. in addition, we do not comprehend how social indicators could be put on a par with economic ones in the framework of the european semester – the first not always being measurable. i do hope for a better cooperation next year so that the european parliament could again express its views on such an important matter.
in writing. ‒ the european semester process is an important part of monitoring economic reform across the european union. from this viewpoint, it is important that all member states follow the country-specific recommendations. it was disappointing that this report did not go far enough in this regard. in my opinion the text is too long and lacks a clear focus, so i did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. the dariusz rosati report is an attempt to find a balanced view of the european semester and to contribute to improving the quality of this instrument, which is important for economic policy coordination. i regret that the left, in particular, in some cases rejects even the most obvious economic laws and presents proposals that could plunge europe back into the economic problems from which it is so difficult to recover today. i am convinced that the need for a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy is absolutely indisputable, as is the need for structural reforms in many countries. and in these areas the european semester must play a major role. despite some problematic amendments, i supported the report and regret that parliament has rejected it as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it does not go far enough and because i disagree with a number of points. moreover, in my opinion the text is too long and the wording is sometimes not really appropriate. the european semester process is an important tool for monitoring economic reform across the european union and it deserves a serious report, not an accumulation of ideological provisions.
in writing. ‒ the long-term unemployment rate differs greatly from one member state to the other. in czech republic, where the unemployment rate is one of the lowest in the eu, it currently reaches 2.3 %. the most important element in fighting the long-term unemployment is to maintain the skills of the jobseeker. we need to focus on the jobseeker’s continuous education and reskilling in order to match his or her skills and qualifications to the demand on the labour market. with this resolution, parliament has made an innovative proposal to the member states to be able to tackle long-term unemployment across europe and i fully support it. it suggests an individual approach towards long-term jobseekers through a ‘job integration agreement’, stipulated between the jobseeker and employment services. such agreement would assess the individual’s potential and suggest the approach to be taken for his or her reintegration at the labour market before reaching 18 months of unemployment. i urge the member states to commit to this recommendation for the sake of a competitive europe with a dynamic labour market.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that parliament voted positively in regard to the council’s recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. however, i am disappointed that this proposal did not come earlier, because it might have been able to prevent some of the long term unemployment that we see today. what we must focus on now is reaching out to all of those affected by long term unemployment so that we can start to help them. to do this we need cooperation at all stages of the process and across all of society as well. i also call on the member states to match eu funding in order to help solve the issues of those facing long term unemployment. in addition, when member states are solving their issues nationally, they need to take into account regional differences, such as those between rural and urban areas. with these measures and many others in the report, we can better assist those who are struggling with long term unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which draws attention to the fact that more than 12 million people in the eu have been unemployed for a long time, with the situation becoming more severe since the 2007 economic crisis. it warns that long-term unemployment often leads to poverty and has huge societal costs. therefore, the resolution welcomes the proposal for a council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market and equally urges member states to take action. it stresses the need to reach out also to unregistered long-term unemployed and to exercise an individual approach. importantly, it calls on the commission and the member states to assess how to support business development and investment plans to create sustainable and quality jobs for the long-term unemployed.
in writing. ‒ rpas are being developed and operated all over the world, and europe is currently home to the largest number of civilian operators. i am glad that parliament has taken on this issue because rpas are surely going to be more prevalent in the future, and we need to ensure that their use is safe for their operators as well as other manned and unmanned aircraft. some of the key issues are: whether there should be a distinction between professional and recreational use; the question of out of sight flights; and areas where operation would be considered unsafe. these are only some of the hurdles that must be tackled and more will present themselves as we go further down this road. however, i believe it is necessary that we start taking on these issues early because rpas are here to stay and can be useful for industries, as well as recreation.
in writing. i supported the report on the safe civilian use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas). although primarily developed for military purposes, drones are increasingly used in the commercial sphere and among humans as a hobby. unfortunately, today, they're mostly seen as a threat, a weapon, or a tool for spying. in my view, there is a need for legislative adjustment in the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems. all member states have some rpas activity, either in the production or in the operation. the absence of harmonising legislation could result in a slowdown in the development of rpas in the european union. but these laws must clearly distinguish between professional and recreational use of drones.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on remotely piloted aircraft systems, so-called drones, because it contains a number of important points. for example, it calls for a distinction between commercial and recreational drone operations, which is not covered by current aviation regulations. drones should be equipped with software that prevents them from flying in risk areas such as airports or industrial areas. the report points out that the right to privacy and the protection of personal data must be guaranteed. in this context, it also covers issues of identification marking of drones, which would allow traceability of their owners, if necessary.
in writing. i voted for the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as drones. this ep report concerns drones used in civil aviation. this technology was originally developed for military purposes but is now beginning to benefit various civilian applications, whose added value increases with the increasing distance between the machine and the pilot controlling the machine remotely. the report furthermore rightly emphasises the need to put in place appropriate policies to protect privacy and address safety issues related to the operation of drones. it is also necessary to establish a clear european legal framework to ensure investment and the development of a competitive european rpas industry. the development of appropriate innovative technologies is necessary for the full integration of rpas into european airspace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets the first step towards a european framework for the safe use of drones. drones are a new and popular technology which is developing extremely fast. whether it is for leisure or for professional purposes, drones bring enormous opportunities that should not be hampered, therefore the regulators, the industry and commercial operators must work together. the many benefits we can derive from the use of drones dwell in the fact that they operate in the airspace; this is also the reason why their use must be carefully examined so that an unexperienced pilot cannot threaten the activities of the other users of the airspace such as flights or emergency air services. that is why i support a clear european framework which should be elaborated on a risk-based approach and needs to take into account the characteristics of the drones e.g. weight, scope of operation or speed, but also the purpose of their use.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by parliament’s vote on the promotion of tourism in europe. europe is the number one tourist destination in the world, with millions upon millions of tourist coming to europe each year. this provides a substantial portion of the eu’s gdp, in addition to providing millions of jobs within its regions. with these facts, i expect the commission to continue supporting tourism throughout europe and to call on them to make the european structural and investment funds more transparent, since they are a large source of funding for tourism projects. i also support the enrichment of the destination europe brand in order to better promote european tourism as a whole. europe has so much to offer in terms of culture and history and the european union should do everything it can so that people around the world can experience it.
in writing. i think that the promotion of tourism is particularly important. although no decline in tourists visiting the eu member states is expected, europe must respond to the pressure of popular destinations, especially those that are more affordable. the european parliament should aim to maintain or increase the competitiveness of tourist destinations in europe. several surveys have pointed to weaknesses in ensuring sufficient quality of services. 15% of europeans do not use rail transport because of poorly accessible platforms or lack of information. good accessibility is an important condition for promoting tourism in europe. i believe that this report will help to improve the quality of services and thus to increase the competitiveness of european tourist destinations.
in writing. i supported the report on tourism in europe, which deals with a number of important aspects. the new challenges facing tourism are mainly linked to the development of new digital and communication technologies. i am therefore very pleased that the report includes, among other things, an important point on the removal of geoblocking, which is very widespread in the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services and the development of the digital services market. the text also emphasises the promotion of cultural tourism, including the promotion of european cultural routes. the report also considers the social dimension of tourism, to make it affordable and accessible to all groups of the population, including families with children, the elderly and people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i consider it important that the european parliament has formulated and agreed a report on the new challenges and strategies in the field of tourism in europe, thus supporting the maintenance of europe's current position as the world's leading tourist destination. comprehensive support for the tourism sector, which generates 10% of eu gdp and employs 13 million workers, not only contributes to sustainable economic growth and employment, but also highlights europe's rich cultural diversity and strengthens european identity. i welcome the call to member states, regions and businesses to make systematic and as transparent as possible use of the new funding opportunities available through the eu's structural funds and programmes. improved coordination between member states, together with a greater involvement of digital infrastructure, is essential to further develop this key sector of the european economy. i therefore also welcome the initiative to establish a european year of tourism and to consider the establishment of a european tourism agency, which seeks to raise the profile of europe as a whole, with an emphasis on protecting the diversity and uniqueness of europe's regions.
in writing. i supported today's report on new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe. i believe that it is absolutely right that the treaties do not allow for the adoption of uniform union legislation in the tourism sector, but i do recognise that some degree of cooperation, exchange of experience or also coordinated application of lessons learned from this experience is appropriate, since to some extent the european union as a whole is exposed to the competitive environment of other destinations in the world and this competitive environment needs to be addressed. the experience and improvements in digital services in tourism, for example, can then be used at the regional level, which is still the primary level and whose success is a prerequisite for a competitive european tourism policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which looks at possibilities for europe to better promote itself as a tourist destination. currently, europe is the world’s number one tourist destination and the majority of trips abroad by eu residents remain within the eu. tourism is extremely beneficial for the european economy and i think we could gain more of it if we, for instance, facilitate access to finance for companies working in this sector or encourage the digitalisation of our infrastructure. eu public money should be used for projects with clear european added value and so strengthen the development of cross—border tourism projects. in this respect, we should support the implementation of integrated and multimodal forms of transports which are strong incentives to cross-border tourism and a prerequisite for travelling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe we do need a tracking system in all aircrafts. after the tragedy of malaysian airlines 370 and all the events before and since, there is no excuse for such a system not to be present. while radar is able to cover most flights, once a flight is out of range or over a sea, it is flying blind. i hope we will agree an international gps tracking protocol soon for all our safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution supporting the commission's action to rapidly develop a more efficient global flight tracking system that will enable air navigation service providers to locate public transport aircraft at any time. i believe that the development of this system will promote better cooperation and coordination between all the actors concerned, such as the aviation industry, air carriers, air navigation service providers, safety and rescue services or international organisations. it is also necessary to ensure interoperability between alternative technologies in order to avoid disruption of airspace protection and security and to allocate an appropriate radio spectrum band to avoid any interference, in support of the future development of a global satellite flight tracking system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is more than timely that the eu works on the development of satellite-based flight tracking technology. the disappearance of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 proved that the full coverage of airspace by tracking technologies is a matter of safety. today, only satellite technologies enable such a coverage, even above oceans, but to be fully operable they require a specific spectrum band. the allocation of spectrum bands will be discussed next month during the world radiocommunication conference.
in writing. ‒ after the malaysian airlines plane crash, it was very difficult and time-consuming to identify its location at all. that is why this resolution calling for the introduction of global surveillance of aircraft tracks, including over the sea and the ocean, is very important and i have supported it. it turns out that our current technology is not enough and we need to work on developing it.
mr president, i appreciate the fact that the commissioner appreciates the resolution. it looks, madam commissioner, as though we are heading in the same direction and there is a large degree of overlapping. i find the resolution is a balanced one. it is not perfect, but i think that we have set out the objectives. let me first reflect something that some of my colleagues have said. it seems to me that the fact that some airlines are not doing well is not the fault of the airlines or of the national member states. we always had the eu to blame for it. certainly we need an aviation package. clearly, we will have to address the burden. we will have to have a look at the internal market and we will have to have an equal level playing field, as you have said. if there is state aid somewhere, we have to address it. the commission will have to make the effort. but protectionism is not the way out. i do not think that this is what we should be doing. i must say, madam commissioner, that we are impatient too. we believe that if the seven points that we have outlined are well elaborated and developed, there would be a solid basis for our interaction. i am looking forward too, but i think that the principles should lead to real competitiveness and not just protection, and i am sure that we are on the same page on that.
mr. chairman, i'd also like to comment on the upcoming air package. most of us are well aware that the aviation market is one of the most liberalized markets in the world. the competition is huge. nor is it new that practices that lead to a weakening of social standards are taking place in the context of the acquisition of competitive advantages. this also applies to the current unsatisfactory situation of aircrew, which is also caused by a variety of atypical forms of employment. the social aspects of air travel really must not be underestimated. especially if they could affect traffic safety. the future of air passengers will depend first and foremost on their confidence in air safety.
mr president, zero rating is a honey trap for consumers, especially young consumers. while enjoying free access to some sites, they do not fully realise that they are being led down the path to a habit of spending all their money and data in that one place. it is creating a social addiction to one content provider over another. such practices are not new. there is no such thing as a free lunch. they have existed in the marketing world since the start of advertising. but just as we must control misleading practices in the physical world, we must be equally careful in the digital world. as the commissioner has just said, national authorities will have the power to prevent the misuse of such zero-rating practices. but, if they cannot prevent abuse, this should be part of any review of telecoms regulation. this is not only a question of defending the principles of net neutrality, but also of fair competition in the digital single market.
mr. chairman, i've listened with interest to the discussion and questions about what kind of internet we want or whether there should be a zero rate. i think that was actually answered in our previous resolutions on net neutrality. and i am a little surprised at my colleagues that they reject the zero rate, that they consider it inappropriate, that they want to decide in advance for the consumer without really having clearly demonstrated the negative effect. i don't know if we really want to literally guide consumers by the hand, predict their future in this way. i would also leave the responsibility to the market, which should not be interfered with at the outset, the market should be liberal, and the harmfulness of those effects must first be demonstrated and then can be interfered with. i am surprised that anyone would want to oppose zero interest rates in advance.
madam president, i would like to say on this subject that europe must undoubtedly help. and i think that europe should not be afraid to intervene. the creation of two trust funds for syria and the countries of north africa is really late. we have to realize that these people have been living in a civil war for five years. and if anyone thinks that these people are really going to be killed or be in camp conditions that are completely unworthy, that don't provide any future for their children, then clearly they won't. i - and certainly none of my colleagues - would not have lived under such conditions, would have got up and left. and that's why it's important for europe to help. i welcome the creation of these two trust funds, but i have to take a breath because they were just too late.
in writing. i consider both funds to be very important, especially as a help in dealing with the migration crisis. their amounts are not small, of course, but their direction is crucial for the eu. if we can use this money to help stabilise both regions, i believe that it will be used far more effectively than for some of the eu's internal policies. member states should therefore make the corresponding appropriations available as a matter of urgency to finance the activities covered by these funds. their contribution will surely be worth many times that in the future.
madam president, i am in no way going to play down the issue in the sense that there is also violence against men or that there should be a slight change of name. i consider this a very serious issue, because violence against women is a fact, and the call for prevention should be joined by all of us. i would like to ask the commissioner - her speech was rather exhaustive - but she did ask me two questions. first, how are this programme and the commission's efforts, all five challenges, coordinated with the national authorities? and whether the challenge or the challenges are somehow targeted at countries that have a higher rate of problems with this phenomenon than some others. because the statistics on violence against women really do vary a lot from one member state to another. so these are my two questions.
madam president, let me remind you that the refugee crisis is not over, but that there are possibilities for its reincarnation in other parts of europe. we already have about two and a half million idps in ukraine, internally displaced people, and any economic or military shock can open the floodgates for waves of refugees from the east to the outside world. today, i was informed by the member of the ukrainian parliament and founder of the donbas volunteer battalion, semyon semyonchenko, that in recent days, separatist forces north of donetsk launched a heavy weapons offensive against ukrainian forces. the ukrainian military confirmed the information and said they were returning their withdrawn heavy equipment to their original positions. semyonchenko has declared the minsk agreements ineffective, and i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, are the minsk agreements not dead? isn't it time to replace them with a concept of strong military support for ukraine? that's the way to stop the next wave of refugees.
madam president, i would like to comment on the demands made by the british prime minister this week, which i believe are an attack on the fundamental principles of the eu. for me, as a citizen of the czech republic with our historical experience, restrictions on freedom of movement are unacceptable, even if they affect only parts of the member states, and perhaps that is precisely why. freedom of movement is one of the pillars on which the european union and its foundations are based. without these pillars, i believe that the union as such cannot continue to exist. the commission's proposal to limit social benefits for nationals of other member states is also economically unjustified. there are statistics and data showing that uk citizens benefit from the social welfare systems of other member states to a greater extent than citizens of other member states benefit from the uk social welfare system. i do not understand this request either, and i hope that it is not an ultimatum but a really rational and normal debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed programme on interoperability solutions for european public administration as i find it essential to promote the digitalisation of public administration. it is one of the key features of the overall digital agenda to be developed throughout the eu. the czech republic has a poor record in this area and some serious effort must be made in order to modernise national public administration. the funds provided through the new isa2 instrument could be a very useful contribution to the government’s initiatives in this field.
in writing. ‒ while i see the potential benefits of interoperability, i see this legislation as an expensive eu programme to 'europeanize' public administration and take it out of national control, not as a tool for efficiency. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a draft decision introducing an interoperability solution programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa). interoperability should in particular help to remove obstacles to the exercise of the rights of eu citizens. this is closely linked to the objective of introducing e-government, which should make it easier and simpler for citizens to communicate with public authorities. at the same time, however, attention must be drawn to the risks involved, such as the possibility of hacking the network, i.e. how to ensure the protection of personal data, often insufficient coverage, consideration for older citizens who already have difficulty learning to move and use digital devices, and therefore also the phenomenon of the potential emergence of new excluded groups of the population. the isa2 programme should also contribute to the achievement of those objectives. i consider the report to be balanced in that it also draws attention to possible risks, which is why i voted in favour in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission's proposal to establish an interoperability solution programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2). i appreciate that isa2 represents a significant shift in focusing on businesses and citizens with the aim of modernising the public sector to respond more effectively to the needs of the public. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. increasing interoperability means improving the quality of public services, which can benefit both businesses and citizens.
‒ i consider interoperability to be essential for maximising the social and economic potential of information and communication technologies and, as a result, only with sufficient interoperability will we be able to achieve the objectives of the european digital agenda. the eu will therefore put in place a new isa interoperability solution programme for the period 2016-2020, which builds on the previous programme, which expires at the end of this year. the eu has already done a lot in the area of interoperability, but there is still much work to be done to achieve the ideal state of digital connectivity between organisations, public administrations and citizens. lack of interoperability often constitutes an obstacle to the deployment of digital services between end-users and to the creation of single points of contact for businesses and citizens. maximising the interoperability of european institutions and public administrations is essential for the completion of the digital single market, which will allow citizens to fully benefit from interoperable electronic services, including e-government and e-health. i am convinced that interoperability is one of the policies that we can manage most effectively at european level. this requires a common concept of interoperability and an integrated solution. for citizens and businesses, better interoperability will mainly mean more efficient, simplified and user-friendly e-government.
in writing. i was happy to support the commission's proposal to set up an interoperability solution programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2). this programme, which builds on the existing very successful isa1 programme, is a major step forward, mainly because it is newly targeted at businesses and citizens. considerable scope is thus given to the real needs of the public. in today's europe, more and more citizens are working and doing business across the eu and therefore need to communicate with public authorities. unfortunately, they very often encounter electronic administrative obstacles that prevent them from using public services effectively and, as a result, from the smooth functioning of the eu internal market. the interoperability solutions programme will contribute to the improvement of public services within the eu. it will lead to the proper implementation of a wide range of eu policies, for example in the areas of public procurement, health, taxation. it will ensure increased competitiveness and help deliver on the european digital agenda, all while benefiting businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2): interoperability as a means of modernising the public sector. e—goverment solutions are becoming more and more important, or rather necessary. digital solutions in public administration can bring significant savings, make public administration easier and faster and ensure seamless electronic cross-border or cross-sector interaction between public administrations, businesses and citizens. therefore i support the isa2 programme – the follow-up programme to isa, which ran from 2010-2015. isa2 is expected to start on 1 january 2016, and to run until 31 december 2020. the new eur 131 million programme will support the development of interoperable digital solutions, which will be available to all interested public administrations in europe.
madam president, i'm speaking on voting rights reform, but i just want to point out that i was also on the previous point regarding the future of air travel, and i was overruled without being allowed to speak. i would like to say that i supported the report by mrs hübner and mr leinen on the right to vote because i am convinced that time has passed since the original act, the 1970s. i disagreed with some of the provisions of the report, not so much on gender equality as on the regular rotation. i think that's a rather strange view of the principle of equality. but there were a lot of good points, whether it was the lowering of the voting age to 16 or, for example, online voting. so this is about the voting reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed eu electoral law reform because i believe there has been a continuous need to update the current electoral legislation. i would like to highlight measures concerning the possibilities of electronic voting via the internet. i am convinced that, in the 21st century, we have to be able to make use of our supreme democratic right by all acceptable means, including the electronic vote. this measure can, furthermore, help to attract young people to vote. there are, however, several issues in the reform proposal that i could not support. they relate to the obligation to present the so-called zipped lists. i could also not agree with the recommendation to harmonise the minimum age of voters at 16 years.
in writing. i voted against this appalling initiative which aims to reform the electoral system in the european elections, but also to reform national elections. the desperation of the eurocrats and meps is reflected in the proposals in point 2: 'it proposes to increase the visibility of european political parties by placing their names and logos on the ballot paper' and 'incredibly' it recommends that the names and logos should also be used in the broadcast of the elections on radio and television! but the correct solution is, of course, to take all the public money from the euro area countries. to this end, the european parliament proposes a single european electoral district (pn 63); a single deadline for the submission of candidates (point 9); a single election day (point 24); a lowering of the voting age to 16 (when children are not yet raised to eurosceptic questions by courses such as european education) (point 15); a minimum 3% electoral clause (point 7); a european electoral office (point 22); and calls on the member states to take measures to promote the adequate representation of ethnic, linguistic and other minorities in european elections (point 21). something so desperate and blatantly anti-democratic is not seen in the european union.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the motion for a resolution on the reform of electoral legislation. it is a sad fact that the voter turnout in the european elections is also on a downward trend. nor did the news that the largest political groups are nominating a candidate for president of the european commission, which some politicians have promised will make the european elections more attractive. the resolution we are voting on today contains proposals with which i cannot identify, in particular the introduction of a single european candidate, whereby the whole of the eu would serve as one constituency. this reform would, of course, seriously harm small parties from small member states, whose chances of being elected would be practically nil. i also cannot agree with other proposals, such as the introduction of a single eu-wide election day, a single deadline for the submission of candidate lists, and the so-called european electoral commission. the adoption of these proposals would imply disproportionate interference with the constitutional legal traditions of the member states or would directly require amendments to the constitutions of the member states. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report on the reform of the european union's electoral legislation, motivated by the desire to make the ep electoral system more transparent and 'european'. the council will now be in charge, but it is good that it has received the impetus, for example in the form of the requirement to ensure gender equality in the form of lists of candidates and to allow the introduction of electronic and internet voting and voting by correspondence, which would make it easier for citizens of the union, in particular those with reduced mobility or living abroad, to vote.
in writing. the declining voter turnout at a time when the european parliament's decisions are reflected in people's daily lives confirms the large communication gap between the eu apparatus and its citizens and therefore calls for a number of changes. it is difficult for eu citizens to find their way around the organisation of parliamentary political groups, and it is not easy to understand that it is membership of a particular political group that affects the ability of an individual member to promote his or her views. i therefore consider it a step in the right direction if the affiliation of a domestic political party to its european counterpart is already clearly indicated on the national ballot. i regret that not all the progressive proposals were adopted, in particular the measures on the balanced representation of women and men on the lists of candidates. on the basis of my practical experience of working in the european parliament, i am also in favour of the proposal to establish a minimum threshold for election, which has not yet been established in some member states and has led to fragmentation, and on the other hand, in the interests of equal opportunities, an upper threshold must also be established. i consider the establishment of a europe-wide threshold of between 3% and 5% to be quite adequate. i am strongly in favour of introducing the possibility of electronic voting. i now see this as an absolute necessity and believe that this step will support the introduction of electronic voting in national and regional elections.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the reform of the electoral legislation, although i hope that the lowering of the voting age will not happen. i think it is important that the laws of the member states allow all those who wish to vote in the european elections to vote. i also think it is important that the elections are organised as efficiently as possible. the resolution called on the member states to introduce postal voting, to agree on the same date for elections, to ensure equal representation of women and men on the lists of candidates, and to amend their electoral laws so that there could be no two-state elections in the event of dual nationality. but i voted against the recommendation to lower the voting age to 16. i do not think it is appropriate to recommend harmonization to the member states in such a specific area, because the maturity of the electorate is a very important condition for responsible decision-making, and i think that everything has its time. the slim majority that decided on the recommendation points to the problematic nature of such a change.
in writing. the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union attempts to harmonise certain electoral rules in the context of elections to the european parliament. harmonisation of elections to the european parliament in all member states could strengthen the political dimension of european integration and harmonise electoral conditions in all member states. i remember the elections to the ep, for which i was a candidate, but i could not vote because i was on a foreign trip in kiev at the time and the election to representative offices is not possible for czech citizens in the european elections. this reform is supposed to eliminate this electoral inequality. i supported the proposal as a whole, but took the liberty of objecting to the introduction of mandatory gender quotas for candidates from individual member states. i consider this step to be unnecessary in the sense that while i respect equality between men and women, that equality cannot be used for the purpose of forcibly highlighting women on the candidate list. i am also glad that the ppe rejected the proposal to unify the minimum voting age to 16. this step is an infringement of the constitutions of the nation states and it would be very difficult to reach a european consensus on this point. but even so, there are a lot of points of contention that will have to be agreed by the nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the reform of european electoral law. if the proposals adopted by parliament receive the support of the council, this will be an important step for the future of eu democracy. in the future, a joint constituency would be established in order to allow the direct election of candidates, presented by european political parties, for the function of president of the commission. the proposals would also further harmonise the organisation and voting conditions of the european elections in the member states.
in writing. - i supported this report because i believe that elections to the european parliament should not be purely national in nature, but should at least have basic common rules. i believe that this will lead to an improvement in the common european political awareness. in this report, however, i could not vote for the motion which calls for the regular alternation of men and women on the lists of candidates. candidates are selected on the basis of their abilities, not their gender, and this should remain the case in the future.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on the previous point. i think it's important to explain my vote. i also supported the motion for a resolution in view of the fact that over the course of a few years european airlines have lost more than 20 000 jobs. and that, i think, is a significantly raised finger that we should feel in aviation. in my view, the report suggests that the issue of increasing competitiveness in the aviation sector needs to be addressed. but also, and i liked that very much, it mentions, for example, the removal of unnecessary burdens, not in the security measures, but in the unnecessary administrative measures, where there are also some proposed measures. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report and i am very grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to explain why.
in writing. ‒ although aviation, as a major sector of the economies of the eu member states and the union as a whole, undoubtedly needs a vision for further development, i could not support the 'air package' put forward by parliament. my abstention from voting was due to a number of unfulfilled expectations which i had put into the document and which we tried to reflect in our own version of the gue/ngl document. although the economic benefits of air transport and its significant importance for employment and the preference of highly skilled professions are emphasised on several occasions, i lack a greater emphasis on the social aspects. it should not even be an attempt to reduce existing legal standards in this area or to transfer some of them to transnational competence! i also lack the toughness against social dumping and unequal working conditions, which together with the enormous pressure on the workload of employees, co-create an environment that threatens aviation safety. i also did not support the 'air package' because of the controversial proclamation requirements on the need to limit unfair competition for european air transport by third country companies. knowing that the eu has no real power to implement such plans, i consider these points of the document to be toothless and populist. lastly, i am not in favour of the proposed 'one eu voice' in icao (international civil aviation organisation) - member states cannot be deprived of their representation, which is common to the whole aviation world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on aviation because i believe that the eu should step up its efforts in the field of aviation safety. in the light of the recent germanwings disaster, i consider it important that the text calls on the commission to adopt measures to improve the medical assessment of pilots and the security procedures for the cabin doors, both entry and exit. every effort should be made to ensure that a plane crash caused by the suicidal intention of a mentally disturbed pilot does not happen again.
in writing. a competitive aviation sector is important for the eu, both economically and socially. the aviation industry directly employs some 500 000 eu citizens. the high level of competition in this industry over the last few years has led to a radical reduction in travel costs for an overwhelming number of eu citizens, which not only promotes tourism but also increases the level of european integration by encouraging personal contacts between eu citizens. it is therefore desirable to ensure that the aviation industry remains a growing and competitive sector of the eu economy. the strategy for increasing competitiveness plays a major role in this proposal and i therefore support it. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. the eu must also help the european economy to be competitive internationally. many countries, such as some gulf states, heavily subsidize and favor their national airlines, which then serve as a foreign policy tool of their governments. in the absence of similar support for european airlines, eu airlines are at a marked competitive disadvantage. it is therefore necessary to ensure a level playing field for this sector on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the forthcoming aviation package, because it is a set of measures in the field of aviation which should create better conditions for a more competitive european aviation sector and ensure both quality of service and the highest level of safety. consumers, airlines, airports and employees will thus benefit from new routes and airports, greater choice, lower prices and overall better quality of service and more job opportunities. it is also necessary to promote innovation in the field of air traffic control (atc) of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), the use of alternative fuels, aircraft and engine design (higher efficiency, lower noise), airport safety (contactless solutions and one-off checks against unlawful acts), digitalisation and multimodal solutions (computer-controlled ground handling) and at the same time it is important to promote environmental protection, such as global market-based measures to reduce co2 emissions from international aviation.
in writing. ‒ i co-signed and voted for the resolution on the future aviation package, which sets out the european parliament’s expectations on the commission proposal that will be delivered in the next weeks. the last months proved that improvements to the current state of play as regards competitiveness of the european aviation industry, international cooperation, social standards and safety of the airspace are much needed. i agree that tackling unfair commercial practices within and outside the eu is a priority as well as ensuring a level playing field between all operators, but protectionism is not the solution for european airlines. we need to conduct a real investigation into this matter and from that investigation alone address the problems.
mr president, madam commissioner, europe needs a world where all doors are open to our businesses, and global free trade is the key to those doors. if we want europe to be strong, we must support all measures to ensure the removal of barriers both within the wto framework and outside. now we must draw a line under the last 14 years of the doha development agenda (dda) discussion and move forward. i believe we can do this within the wto, but only if we adopt a new strategy and a new vision for it as an institution. what do we need at this stage to reach this goal? firstly, we must finish this round in some form, to keep the multilateral agenda moving. i hope that the european union will continue to be at the forefront, leading this discussion. but there needs to be greater engagement of all members to bring some meaningful results from these talks, even if these are less than we originally hoped for. secondly, after this is done, in order to recommit ourselves to a multilateral trade agenda, we need a new plan on how to progress within the wto trade agenda that is not just a repeat of the same old ways. the nairobi meeting should be about achieving and accepting realistic results on the dda on the one hand, but it should also aim at charting an ambitious way forward for the wto more generally. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– thank you for your question, and i agree that we are now at a milestone in the wto negotiations. i think we need the engagement not only of the european union but of all the members of the wto, because it is crucial that we move the global trade agenda forward. it is not enough to have bilateral or bi—regional negotiations. i think it is in the interests of all the players to have global trade rules.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to say that as the permanent rapporteur of the inta committee for the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, i did not support the oral question and the inclusion or initiation of this debate. however, i found myself in the minority on the committee, and i respect that, of course. i believe that the human rights issue was given a great deal of attention during the negotiation of this trade agreement, that the commitments described therein are also sufficient and that vietnam will abide by them. and it's also our job to oversee the implementation of that agreement. and i believe that we must now focus on the final stage of ratification of the agreement. i'm very happy that she's going to be symbolically signed next week. finally, let me stress that i am also pleased that we have succeeded here in the european parliament in establishing the eu-vietnam friends group, in which all the parliamentary groups are represented, which is truly exceptional, and i believe that this group will help to ensure that the ratification of this agreement proceeds smoothly.
madam president, this report on reducing child poverty, although it has no direct legislative implications, is undoubtedly a very strong appeal to the institutions of the european union and to the member states. i would like to thank mrs zuber for her very helpful approach to the amendments and for the consensus we have reached. the poverty of children is dependent on their families, on their parents. so the report also addresses families, better childcare, employment, affordable housing, affordable health care for families. the way out of poverty the way to a better prospect for children is to improve their education and especially their completion of secondary education. quality education is one of the main tools for reducing poverty. this also relates to the proposal for free meals, extracurricular services and extracurricular activities. i think it also has to do with dealing with the migration crisis and taking care of the children who come here.
in writing. one in four children in eu countries is now at risk of poverty. children of long-term unemployed parents, children of single mothers and children of immigrant families are also strongly represented in this category. child poverty thus becomes one of the indicators of the effectiveness, or rather the ineffectiveness, of integration policies. since the start of the economic crisis in 2008, the proportion of children living in poverty has increased quite significantly, even in those eu countries that are among the richest. the risk of poverty among children is also increasing in families where one or both breadwinners are dependent on part-time contracts. they are the fastest growing sectors of the labour market in recent years. the measures proposed by the rapporteur do not take account of the new situation created by the influx of refugees from disintegrated countries. it is to be expected that the risk factors of child poverty (unemployment, part-time work, incomplete families) will be particularly frequent among them. the measures proposed do not provide a good enough picture of how to tackle the integration of migrants without also affecting the chances of tackling child poverty among the categories of population covered by the report. for political reasons, it would not be prudent to ignore this call.
mr president, we have only twenty-five minutes left to vote and decide the winner of the tenth annual lux film prize, which will be announced tomorrow at the european parliament's plenary session. i mention this because the language of film is sometimes much more understandable to the citizens than the language of us politicians. and these films that have been nominated are very topical. mediterranea is a film about the motivation and destiny of african refugees. the film mustang is about the young generation of turks and the bulgarian film urok is about family relationships, misunderstandings and conflicts. these are films that are very valuable and that contribute to the dialogue between europeans, that contribute to the discussion of european values also between us, politicians and citizens of the european union. i believe that this prize also contributes to a greater awareness of the european values that we are here to defend.
the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. i am therefore pleased that the commission (and vice-president šefčovič personally) is fully committed to the energy union. however, parliament is also fulfilling its role and i have to commend my colleague mr gróbarczyk, now a minister in the new polish government, for having prepared a balanced report on itre. let me make a few notes. first, the infrastructure. we need interconnectors, and that's why i welcome the energy projects under the cef approved last week as you mentioned. the second point concerns energy security, which should be based on the principle of solidarity. however, the nordstream ii project deviates from this principle and is rightly perceived by many as a threat. the issue of decarbonisation needs to be approached with common sense, respecting the specificities of certain countries, especially those with a high share of coal in the energy mix, and its importance for heating, for example. and also respect nuclear energy as a low-carbon energy source vital to many countries. we must avoid the negative effects of our policies, such as high energy prices and deindustrialization. the energy union, on the other hand, must be the impetus for an open energy market that will help the competitiveness of member states and our industry.
mr president, i would like to thank the vice-president for his introductory remarks and also for the reassurance that 2016 will be the year of deliveries. we will be happy to provide a helping hand in this respect. but in order to achieve energy union, i believe that we need a reform of the electricity market; and in order to do so, with the new market design, i think we need three elements to be in mutual balance. the first one is – and we need to pay really extraordinary attention to it – to provide for a secure integration of decentralised and renewable resources into the electro-energetic systems, and also to create appropriate conditions for those consumers that do produce energy for their own private consumption. the second element is that we need to renew the price signals to investors and thereby secure a sufficient amount and volume of energy resources. the third one would be to make sure that whatever measures we do enact, they will not overburden the end consumer and will not have a negative impact on competitiveness. one final remark goes outside the market design, and that is nord stream. i do appreciate what you have said on nord stream 2, but we will still have an infrastructure which, in fact, should always serve the strategic purpose of all eu member states and the new neighbourhood. in this respect i think that parliament will be strong in its next message.
mr president, the energy union is primarily a matter of energy security. i have four such short notes. the first concerns the need to diversify resources. we cannot depend on a limited number of resources and we need to participate in the economic development of siberia together with the russian federation and eliminate dependence on politically unstable areas. the second point concerns nuclear energy. the energy security of the european union cannot be achieved without nuclear energy, and here we really need to do everything we can to increase the share of nuclear energy. the third point concerns interconnectivity. the gas crisis of 2009 showed how crucial this question is. the european union has not made much progress in this area and we really need to do everything we can to make progress in this area of interconnectivity. the fourth point concerns the storage tanks. you have to have a supply of energy resources for the time of a possible crisis, for the time of unforeseen events. that's the lesson of 2009.
mr president, i agree with all the speakers who have said that the energy union project has already brought about a number of positive changes this year and certainly has tangible results. some of your key proposals will be presented next year, such as a revision of the energy efficiency directive, the building efficiency directive or the renewable energy directive. but let me mention two areas where i think we are not making enough progress. one of them, and i think one of the biggest problems with the energy union, is that the price of electricity for end-users in the european union, with the possible exception of japan, is the highest in the world. and i think that, given the profound implications for a number of industries that are exposed to strong foreign competition, the energy union should change that. it should help bring european prices closer to the world average as a matter of urgency, which would increase our competitiveness and reduce household costs. the second area to be mentioned is the way in which the energy union will be managed. how we want to get her to have real results. many of the initiatives we're discussing are non-binding. for example, energy efficiency, which is one of our key priorities and the entire pillar of this project. it's a sign of lack of ambition and political will. at the same time, we lack a unified and yet comprehensive proposal for how the whole project will be financed and from what sources.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the commission's first state of the energy union report addresses not only strategic issues of safety, efficiency and infrastructure but also equally important issues of social justice in the energy sector, with an overall emphasis on strengthening the role of consumers. i consider it important that the achievement of ambitious climate and energy targets is consistent with the commitment to a more important role for end-users in energy markets, in particular in terms of more affordable prices. the submitted working document on consumer trends notes that, despite the progress made, the electricity and gas markets are still not functioning as they should. the social democrats have long called for tackling energy poverty and helping vulnerable consumers to access affordable energy. we need concrete measures that will lead to a reduction in household energy expenditure and to household energy savings, for example by simplifying conditions allowing consumers to compare tariffs and choose the most advantageous supplier.
in writing. the commission's proposal to repeal certain parts of eu legislation was supported by an absolute majority of meps, including myself. this is a mere legal update, removing several measures of a temporary nature and legislative acts that have expired. the aim of this update is to improve the clarity of the applicable european union law.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution which consequently endorses the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice. the repeal of these acts has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism or the resolution of the migration crisis. it concerns only the abolition of redundant provisions which are no longer relevant, such as the regulation on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii). the sis ii has already been tested and is now operational.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice. an assessment by the commission found that a number of acts belonging to it are no longer relevant because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they are of a temporary nature. the proposal should take the form of a regulation. it suggests repealing eleven decisions of the schengen executive committee and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), the legal effect of which was exhausted once the sis ii became operational in april 2013.
in writing. the commission's proposal to repeal certain parts of eu legislation was supported by an absolute majority of meps, including myself. this is a mere legal update, removing several measures of a temporary nature and legislative acts that have expired. the aim of this update is to improve the clarity of the applicable european union law.
in writing. ‒ in order to simplify eu law and in line with the inter-institutional agreement, i voted in favour of this report, regarding obsolete legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. to make it more binding, parliament has proposed that the act become a regulation rather than a decision. it repeals several decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex on combating drug trafficking, the police handbook, road traffic offences and abduction of minors, as well as council decision 2008/173/jha on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii).
in writing. the commission's proposal to repeal certain parts of eu legislation was supported by an absolute majority of meps, including myself. this is a mere legal update, removing several measures of a temporary nature and legislative acts that have expired. the aim of this update is to improve the clarity of the applicable european union law.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the two previous reports, i also supported this one, with a view to reduce the volume of eu law. the obsolete acts to be removed by it include seven council joint actions the content of which has been taken up by subsequent acts, the council act 98/c 216/01 and the convention of 17 june 1998 on driving disqualifications; and the framework decision 2008/978/jha on european evidence warrant. this report also seeks to justify the use of a regulation as a legal instrument for repealing certain acts whose legal basis after the lisbon treaty requires adoption of a directive.
in writing. ‒ fisheries policy should be decided and coordinated by the countries concerned, not by the eu as a whole. similarly, the eu should not become a member of international organisations, as it is not a state.
in writing. i am very pleased that the european parliament supported the eu in its decision to become a full member of the commission of the convention for the conservation of bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the bluefin tuna convention commission is the regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of the bluefin tuna stock throughout the bluefin tuna area. membership of the ccsbt convention has so far been open only to states, and transnational or regional organisations have been excluded. the ccsbt amended the resolution on the enlarged commission at its 20th meeting in october 2013 to allow interested parties from regional economic integration organisations to become members. it's certainly a step in the right direction. the european union pursues a very active fisheries policy and is involved in all regional fisheries organisations to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the bluefin tuna population has declined by more than 60 percent in the mediterranean and atlantic over the past decade, and the current situation puts it in very real danger of extinction. the european union must continue to work to ensure that this fish is better protected and regulated, and that the agreed rules of the game are respected.
in writing. ‒ in this report, which i supported, parliament gave its consent to an agreement between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the membership of the eu in the extended commission. the eu can thus become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, replacing the status of cooperating non-member that it has had since 2006. the ccsbt is responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna wherever it is to be found. this move should further the eu’s contribution to the sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal and unregulated fishing.
in writing. i supported the proposed directive on insurance intermediation for two main reasons. the first was to increase transparency and clarity in the market for european consumers, for whom insurance is extremely complicated nowadays, which some intermediaries take advantage of. the second reason is the clear introduction of pan-european rules, which is also welcomed by companies operating on the eu market.
‒ the legal framework for the provision of insurance should be addressed by the member states at national level, not by the eu.
in writing. i supported the report on insurance intermediation, which brings to an end several years of complex negotiations between the ep and the council. it has resulted in improvements in the way insurance products are marketed, increased protection for policyholders, improved quality of information provided to customers and a code of conduct for insurance intermediaries. insurance providers will have to be more transparent about the prices and costs of their products, so that it is clear what the consumer is paying and what is not. in this context, i would like to mention that the czech republic recently tabled an amendment to the insurance act, which in many respects was ahead of its time in the development of european legislation. unfortunately, it was swept away by the dispute over intermediary fees, which is a serious problem, but it could have been left out of this legislation. the only way to do this is to reintroduce the amendment, ideally limiting it to elements of the amendment relating to the recently adopted directive on insurance intermediation. we will have to incorporate its contents into our legal order, and we should not underestimate this task.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted by a large majority the directive on the regulation of insurance intermediation. this agreement simplifies the way insurance and related products are sold, while improving consumer protection and increasing the prevention of conflicts of interest. the increased transparency of prices and costs will give the customer better visibility and access to information. given the complexity of the products, the qualifications of the vendors and the availability of advice should also be increased. in my view, it is very important to increase people's confidence in the benefits of insurance, whether it is health insurance or supplementary pension insurance, and this directive should definitely help its credibility.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that seeks to improve regulation in the retail insurance market in the eu. the recast directive lays down rules concerning insurance and reinsurance distribution in the eu, while maintaining minimum harmonisation. it aims at achieving a level playing field among all participants involved in the selling of insurance products and at strengthening policyholder protection. in addition, one of its priorities is consumers’ rights. to this end, it proposes measures to increase the transparency of an insurance contract and providing customers with objective information about the insurance product. among other things, the report introduces new measures relating to breach of obligations when providing services in a host member state. it empowers the competent authority of the host member state, holding that it should be entitled to intervene if the home member state fails to take appropriate measures. in other provisions, the report specifies measures regarding professional knowledge that the home member states should control and assess.
mr president, i also want to say that i voted for this report, albeit with some embarrassment. it said that there was an increasing trend in the number of children who were at risk of poverty. that is certainly true, and for that reason i felt it was my duty to support this report. however, i do not think that the state can replace a caring parent, and i am glad that some of the provisions proposed in that report were not passed, such as the establishment of minimum standards for children's housing. of course, it is important that children have adequate housing, but if parents cannot provide such accommodations, who will replace them? the state? or is it the european union? i am glad that some of the calls for social security have not been heard in this report, because it is beyond what the states can possibly afford at this point. but otherwise, i was happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the ep's intergroup on the rights of the child, i was particularly interested in ms zuber's report. although i disagreed with several unrealistic proposals in this non-legislative document, i decided to support it, together with other members of the liberal group, to begin addressing the impact of poverty on children and young people at european level.
in writing. ‒ poverty cannot be fought by declarations and unsystematic remittances. in particular, we need to open up trade and let poor countries sell their goods to us and also get rich.
in writing. ‒ today we discussed a report which particularly highlights the importance of combating child poverty. we must remember that one fifth of the eu's total population is under 18 years of age and, unfortunately, despite the commitments made, one in four children in the eu is currently at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the report acknowledges that we are aware of these phenomena and calls on member states to make a real commitment to developing policies to combat child poverty, focusing on addressing the factors that contribute to child poverty and on increasing the effectiveness, quantity and scope of social support specifically targeted at children, but also at parents who are unemployed or working but still at risk of poverty. we need to promote labour laws that guarantee social rights, including a statutory minimum wage that respects national practice, and collective agreements that provide greater security for families and combat precarious employment and promote employment with adequate social rights. i voted in favour of the report in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ as a social democrat, it is of the utmost importance to me that we not only tackle poverty itself, but also its causes. and then there's the very fundamental issue of child poverty. we need to not only support children, we need to invest in children first. any support must be targeted and effective. at committee level, we managed to get a few key points across the report, such as investing in free public education, free health care, or decent housing for every child. in our efforts to reduce the number of children exposed to poverty and social exclusion, we must first of all work towards greater security for families. one of the first steps must be the creation of labour legislation that ensures social rights and an adequate remuneration of work, including a statutory minimum wage. we also need to focus on the role of women and men who care for children or family members with disabilities and special needs.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis and the associated austerity measures have affected all layers of society. the number of european children at risk of poverty has increased by an incredible 1 million. children afflicted by poverty are the failure of the whole society. the issue of poverty and social exclusion with its impact on children and young people is crucial for building a cohesive society. ensuring affordable education and health care must be a priority. i therefore supported the draft report which deals with this issue in detail.
in writing. the report on reducing inequalities, with a special focus on child poverty, has no direct legislative implications, but it is a very strong call for action by the eu institutions. i'm glad it was approved and that i was able to contribute to its creation as a shadow reporter for the ppe. i am glad that we have succeeded in removing from the report unnecessary bureaucratic demands on the commission or the creation of new offices, and on the contrary, in emphasising that child poverty is dependent on the situation of their parents and families, who need to be specifically helped and the best possible conditions created for them. our approach is also that the way out of poverty and into a better future for children is to improve their education, especially their secondary education. quality and accessible education is also highlighted in this report as one of the main tools for poverty reduction. in the context of the migration crisis, the report also calls on member states to ensure that the care of migrant children is provided in accordance with the convention on the rights of the child. this is primarily about the lives of children, but it is also about fighting against their exclusion, frustration and subsequent radicalisation, which is now topical.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty, as i believe that this topic needs to be highlighted. according to eurostat and oecd statistics, the number of children at risk of poverty has been increasing in recent years. i believe that the main way to combat child poverty is through adequate family policies, but it is clear that even an ideal family policy is not a 100% guarantee that children will not be poor. these children (families) then need to be given a helping hand to increase their chances of healthy development and future full participation in society. the report thus seeks to draw attention to the current situation by making a number of points of reference to the individual member states, in full compliance with the principle of subsidiarity which should apply to these matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which underlines that a better use of structural funds can be used to fight child poverty in europe. over the past years, child poverty has dramatically increased and more than one child out of four is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, which covers monetary poverty, material deprivation and low work intensity. this report, among other things, encourages member states and the commission to agree on eu standards and establish a methodology for determining the cost of raising a child. resources to prevent and fight child poverty should also be found jointly. for this reason and with respect for the principle of subsidiarity, i opposed those provisions which imposed on member states a specific solution on national competences, for instance the provision on providing free healthcare.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report defending the rights of the child based on the convention on the rights of the child. children are our future and they need to be protected and given special care. i believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that children do not grow up in poverty and social exclusion, because this is the seed of future problems such as crime and radicalisation leading to terrorism. i agree with the report as a whole, but i have reservations about certain details.
madam president, i have supported the report by mrs reintke because it has also undergone a certain development. at first, it looked like it was going to be an all-encompassing report where virtually every group would be considered marginalized. fortunately, during the discussions in the committee on regional development, the report was amended, and i could therefore support it with a clear conscience, also because cohesion policy is really about compensating for certain disadvantages, about removing unjustified differences which are the natural cause of differences, and it is also part of the defence against social exclusion. in the czech republic, in the last five years, there's been a doubling of communities where we're identifying social exclusion. this is undoubtedly a negative trend and the czech republic must respond not only by drawing on european funds for this chapter, but also by its own efforts.
in writing. ‒ poverty cannot be fought by making unsystematic plans and promises, but by focusing on the causes of poverty and the fault of the state and its policies.
‒ marginalized communities are a significant problem. individuals in these communities often lack access to education and employment and face social exclusion. the economic crisis has contributed to the cuts in funding to combat this phenomenon, and the consequences are felt particularly by women from marginalised communities, who suffer multiple and more intense discrimination and have employment levels far below those of men from these communities and other women. i am glad that we were able to discuss this issue and to highlight the importance of cohesion policy instruments in this area. we draw the commission's attention to the needs of each of the potential target groups in order to promote their socio-economic inclusion and stress that the implementation of cohesion policy must address the key problems caused by poverty and exclusion, in particular of young people and children, but also of adults and persons with disabilities, including the transition from institutional care and services to care and community services. we also urge member states to take appropriate measures and take steps to develop and implement strategies to this end using an integrated approach. i voted to accept this report.
in writing. the report has sparked debate about what these groups are and whether they can be defined on ethnic grounds. in the context of debates on migration and the integration of refugees, the ghettos and socially excluded localities have become more vocal about being a hotbed for radicalisation. there is a consensus that if people don't feel like they belong in society, they are pushed to the edge, where they create parallel worlds that follow their own rules and laws. it is therefore necessary not only to encourage and explain constantly, but above all to demonstrate every day that the same rules and obligations apply to everyone and that everyone is really measured by the same yardstick. if not, sooner or later conflict in various forms will surface. in the worst case scenario, it's a conflict between the majority of society and the minority that is perceived as the privileged, which leads to even greater alienation. that's why i'm not only against discrimination, but also against exclusion in inclusion. i find the overall approach of this report rather divisive in this respect and, although i can agree with many of the individual points, i have not supported the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which addresses social exclusion of marginalised communities, including the situation of the roma. i believe that cohesion policy can be a useful tool in supporting the inclusion of marginalised communities, both in the economic, social and territorial senses. the resolution presents two key demands to the commission. firstly, to issue guidance on the definition of marginalised communities and, secondly, to provide detailed information on the funding opportunities. the resolution appeals also to the member states to improve access to public service. regarding the funding programmes, the resolution calls for integrated using of funds and stresses the importance of programmes for deprived neighbourhoods and isolated areas. it calls for proactive monitoring of eu-funded projects and for inclusion of women in the process.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i am a supporter of efforts to integrate all marginalised, i.e. minority and excluded, groups into society. these excluded groups, which are separate from the majority company, often lack access to public infrastructure and services. this is why i believe that eu funds need to be well targeted and used, which is what cohesion policy does.
in writing. i supported this report because of the need to strengthen the role of the european union in tackling global challenges. there is no doubt that the united nations must play a real role in tackling the current migration crisis and in the fight against terrorism. it is therefore desirable that the european union should be heard with a single and decisive voice, and this report proposes concrete steps to that end.
in writing. - the european union cannot have any role in the un because it is not a state and does not speak for the states that are already represented.
in writing. i supported the report on the eu's role in the un, which, among other things, recalls the eu's long-term objective of gaining a seat on the enlarged security council and calls for a pan-european debate on this reform. in the face of increasing security risks, there is an urgent need to find ways to ensure stability at both regional and global levels and to play a stronger role in these stabilisation efforts. it is therefore in our interest to seek a common eu position on matters falling within the competence of the security council and to improve existing cooperation mechanisms to ensure that eu member states that are members of the security council defend the common eu positions in this forum.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by the result of the vote on the report for how the eu can better achieve it foreign policy goals within the un. it is important to recognise that the two organisations share many of the same values and principles, and that the member states of the eu can help to promote the goals. however, i do agree that the un should publish regular overviews of compliance with obligations in order to help ensure that un member states honour their humanitarian aid promises. in addition, i also call on the eu and the un to increase their efforts to reach an ambitious and legally binding agreement at the paris climate conference. with these two small steps, i believe that our two great organisations can accomplish great things in the near future, and that we can all continue to make the world a better place.
in writing. i supported this report because, in an increasingly unstable world, it is important that the eu uses all the mechanisms and means at its disposal to ensure its defence and global stability. the un is the most important international organisation, but the eu does not have full membership. the representation of france and the united kingdom, two eu member states, on the un security council is not ideal. at a time when the eu is facing imminent threats from both the east and the south, we cannot afford a fragmented european foreign policy, let alone one with different accents. eu member states are not strong enough to face the threats from russia or is alone. our common efforts, which share the same objectives, must be coordinated and harmonised into a single european voice that cannot be ignored. that is why we must focus on reforming the un security council, where the eu should be represented. the eu should also have a higher status in the un general assembly than an observer status. at least for the time being, it is necessary to ensure, through the eu high representative mogherini, that the member states of the union cooperate as much as possible in the un.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu's role in the un: how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives, as it is important today to reflect on the role and possibilities of the eu as a whole in the un. the eu shares the same values as the un and contributes to the un's objectives in a fundamental way, often as a leading element, for example in humanitarian aid contributions, but this does not mean that it is not possible to strengthen the eu's role in un structures. but above all, this reinforcement presupposes that the eu will be able to reach a clear consensus within its common foreign and security policy, which will then be disseminated in a uniform manner and will enable the high representative to present and represent this position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on better achieving the eu foreign policy goals within the un and sets out certain recommendations. i think that under the current circumstances, we cannot afford fragmented security across the eu, and therefore actions must be taken consistently at eu level. in this perspective, i supported provisions which emphasise that the eu must play an enhanced role in the general assembly of the un and in the security council, reaffirming the long—term objective of an eu seat. in order to be more active within the un, i also supported provisions calling on parliament to be more proactive as regards its cooperation with the vp/hr and carefully communicate all positions having an external or global dimension.
in writing. i supported this report as it clearly illustrates the eu's position as a strong and important player in the un system, which i fully agree with. the eu's strong position also strengthens the positions of individual member states, and thus of the czech republic itself. the report also, in my view, rightly points to the need for un reform towards greater legitimacy, transparency and effectiveness, which the eu has committed to help achieve.
madam president, what we are debating today is important, and i believe it should not be the end: it should be just the beginning. better collection of taxes and elimination of unfair market-distorting practice by some member states and firms or countries in the world should be eliminated. it should be one of our key priorities: the priorities that should deliver the result. i believe that this report, together with the work programme of mr moscovici and the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) which will follow, will come with reasonable and good priorities that we should implement. firstly, we should quickly and without hesitation implement the beps recommendation – a project that was initiated by the g20, including ourselves, and was endorsed by the oecd. we should set an example for other countries to implement these measures. secondly, we should ensure that member states of the eu will give the green light to the ccctb project. ccctb will be able to eliminate most of the problems of aggressive tax practice within the european union. last but not least, we should also implement the other measures in the area of coordination like improving the function of the work of contact. i believe that this will not be a simple issue. we will be facing a lot of obstacles, but i hope that parliament will play an important decisive role in promoting progress in this important area.
mr. chairman, i was very shocked by the scope of the luxleaks scandal and i have to say that the scope was so surprising to me that i considered myself supporting the provisions of this committee. i admire my colleagues in my political group who have found the courage to do this against the wishes of even the majority of my political group. however, the conclusions reached by the committee are very encouraging and i think that the real issue here is to prevent tax dumping. de facto unfair tax competition, because that is what threatens europe far more than a single tax system. i'm not for a uniform tax system. and i have to say that i am not yet convinced that a common tax base should be established at the level of european law. on the other hand, we cannot continue to tolerate practices which really only benefit multinational companies, and in this respect i will strongly support the report of the committee which has been tabled here.
madam president, first of all, let me thank and congratulate my colleagues fernandes and deprez and the whole committee on budgets on the excellent result achieved in the negotiations with the commission and the council. this is a success compared with last year, and not just for the european parliament, but for the european union as a whole. i'm also very pleased that the security budget has been increased to its maximum, which is also the circuit's all-time maximum. i am glad that we are finally all realizing that it is not possible for europe to deal with the migration crisis if it lacks the means, whether financial, human or material. in my view, the agencies in particular, europol, frontex and easa, are those which need these funds the most. they can't do without them. but we've reached the limit of what we can do by mobilizing everything that can be mobilized. now the question is, what next? where will the european union get more money to finance this crisis? the 2016 budget is, in my view, an excellent first step for the revision of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. it must undergo a major restructuring to enable europe to respond to the threats it faces.
in writing. i am very pleased that the representatives of the european parliament have been able to reach an agreement with the council and the european commission on the 2016 budget of the european union in such a short time. the experience of last year and the initial approach of the member states' representatives did not suggest that the council would see parliament as an equal partner in the negotiations this time. it is gratifying that my colleagues have managed to negotiate the amount of the commitments as presented by the commission by an absolute majority. europe cannot be expected to make progress on growth, competitiveness and employment without sufficient resources to support research and development, innovation, smes and education. on the other hand, as vice-chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have considerable reservations about the decision to reduce the amount of commitments in the budget chapter 'food and feed safety' by more than eur 11 million. reductions may have a detrimental impact on the level of protection and plant and animal health in the union, the early detection and eradication of harmful organisms and the provision of effective and reliable controls. i am also concerned that the council did not respect the amount of payment appropriations proposed by the commission and insisted on a reduction of eur 570 million. if the union were to default in the future, it is clear who is to blame.
madam president, commissioner, after the terrorist attacks in paris and with the current terrorist threat across europe, it is now time to say frankly that our integration and security policy is failing. we must no longer turn a blind eye to the failure of integration of migrants, whether they are first, second or third generation migrants. uncontrolled migration is the reason for the radicalization of these people as well as the reason for their departure to the side of terrorist organizations. i am very pleased with this initiative by the european parliament and congratulate mrs dati for such a comprehensive report, which in my view covers all aspects of the fight against radicalisation and extremism. one thing is clear from this report. only by working more closely together, sharing information, cooperating with third countries and involving everyone, including our citizens, can we succeed in this fight. the current situation clearly shows us that we are already one step behind. five thousand european citizens on the side of terrorist organizations is enough proof, i think.
madam president, it is our duty to ensure security and to fight all causes of violence and hatred. at european union level, we must learn from the risks of a multicultural society. the risks are the ghettos, the excluded localities, the under-educated and unemployed generation of young people who have no prospects for life and who are at great risk because they are disappointed and looking for the meaning of their lives. that is why we are also proposing a number of practical measures to combat radicalisation in prisons. better internet control, better education and working with at-risk youth. we need more effective eurojust, a link between internal and external security instruments. but i think none of this will be enough if we keep adding to the number of frustrated and disillusioned people who are easy prey for radical sects. but europe is built on christian foundations and we should not give up our values. we should insist on the combination of freedom and responsibility, solidarity and security.
mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, my colleague martin, for the great energy he has invested in this report. but above all, for having highlighted the strategic importance of the base metal industry for europe. steel and other metals are key raw materials for construction, automotive and many other industries. the metal industry is under enormous pressure and cannot sustain such a burden in the long term. they face high energy prices, loss of global competitiveness, carbon leakage and job losses. but the report contains some problematic points. the issue of emission allowances should be dealt with in the context of the commission's new proposal for the ets, and not here. we also reject border controls. on the one hand, there is the question of insensitivity in the context of the forthcoming negotiations in paris, but also the risk of breaking international trade rules, which could really damage the eu as a whole. one-sided protectionism on borders is always dangerous. on the contrary, these rules allow us to actively defend against dumping, namely in particular against unfair trading practices of some chinese producers. and we should have more flexibility in the way we provide state aid. we should create a business-friendly regulatory environment and encourage investment in research and development of new technologies.
mr president, i would like to point out that the crisis in the steel industry is undoubtedly linked to a number of market factors, such as overproduction, but i think it is important to emphasize again that it is also linked to non-market factors. and that's adhering to certain standards, whether it's worker protection, favorable working conditions, favorable environment. this means how well individual countries and individual manufacturers comply with the requirements to comply with environmental protection standards. protectionism, which means unlawful state support, these are all issues that are related to this topic, and i think we should not give up on them when we evaluate, for example, china as a country that adheres to these standards.
in writing. ‒ i am not in favour of increasing the budget, the eu should look elsewhere for savings, for example in its promotion spending or in many pointless subsidies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which amends the eu budget for the financial year 2015. this draft amending budget concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the remainder of the 2014 vat and gni balances, and the budgeting of the 2015 vat and gni balances. furthermore, it foresees a reduction of eur 123 474 in both commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor and it results in a decrease in gni-based contributions from member states of eur 9.4 billion. it should be noted, however, that additional resources will be needed to tackle the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that this is funding the eu's misguided and harmful migration policy.
in writing. i supported the increase in the allocation for migration in the 2016 budget using the flexibility instrument. this is a clear priority and the maximum use of resources should be made of it. the additional budgetary injection of eur 1.5 billion will allow us to really put our strengths to work to successfully manage the refugee crisis. their use will need to be carefully monitored to ensure that they are used for meaningful and effective projects and do not end up in a black hole. one example is the improvement of external border management to bring migration flows under control. in any event, this requires a reinforcement of the european dimension of external border control.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution approving an increase in funding for measures related to the migration crisis totalling eur 1 506 million. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. i believe that the current situation cannot of course be solved by simply increasing the budgetary appropriations, but that the current needs arising from the exceptional nature of the situation must be addressed and that smooth financing of the security sector must be ensured.
in writing. ‒ more financial means are necessary to address the refugee crisis and i therefore supported the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to address it. the immediate budgetary measures will be used within the framework of the european agenda on migration. thanks to the mobilisation, the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 will be complemented by eur 1 504 million in commitment appropriations beyond the ceiling of the expenditure heading security and citizenship. i welcome that the european parliament underlined also the external dimension of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis and proposed to further mobilise the flexibility instrument by eur 24 million beyond the ceiling of expenditure heading global europe. in total, it was approved to mobilise the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 1 530 million in commitment appropriations, which will be allocated between 2016 and 2019.
in writing. ‒ recently, in the context of the refugee crisis, i have stressed the need to increase the relevant budgets for its management, the protection of the eu's external borders, etc. in general, therefore, i welcome the release of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures. but i do not agree with the system of compulsory quotas for member states and therefore i do not support the release of funds for reallocation under this mechanism. that's why i abstained.
‒ frontex and europol should have sufficient resources to protect the external borders of the eu member states, because they can really help to better manage the migration crisis. however, this report also allocates funds to the relocation mechanism, so i naturally did not support it, because i am opposed to the redistribution mechanism from the outset.
in writing. ‒ i prefer voluntary solidarity between states and citizens when an event occurs that requires foreign assistance.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament endorsed forward planning and readiness to act quickly when natural disasters strike. the current commission proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the eu general budget for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in case that a disaster occurs next year. i voted in favour of it, because it will help to speed up the disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of an advance before the final award decision has been taken and will thus enhance the effectiveness of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. – it is important that the eu budget for next year is sufficient to deal with issues such as the migration crisis and security concerns. as the alde draftsperson on the libe opinion to the budget, i pushed for more funding in order to better secure the eu’ borders. this is a key priority in my view, as without properly secured external borders, the schengen agreement will be at great risk. i am pleased that the parliament as a whole backed the increase to the frontex budget as well as for the european agenda on security. this is a step towards better managing the current crisis. while i am not in favour of the relocation mechanism for refugees, i respect the decision of the member states to implement this, which of course requires related financial appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu budget as a whole, as it was voted on, and our amendments to save considerable funds were not even taken into account.
in writing. i voted for the draft budget for next year, which, at €155 billion, is the highest ever, because europe cannot afford to go any other way in the current situation. the migration and security crises facing the european union must be addressed with sufficient financial resources. that is why i supported increased funding for neighbourhood policy, foreign policy, development and humanitarian aid, and also the mobilisation of the €800 million flexibility instrument to help member states cope with migration waves. i also supported the necessary staffing and contributions to decentralised and executive agencies, which are in a worrying and unbalanced situation of overburden on the one hand and underfunding on the other. these are in particular eurojust, frontex, europol, the european medicines agency and the european chemicals agency. although migration and security policy are the most discussed topics at the moment, we must not forget the fragile economic situation in which the union and its member states find themselves. the european union is experiencing economic growth, but its recovery is very slow and is driven mainly by exports. i therefore supported an increase of eur 53 million for the horizon 2020 science programme, the cosme sme support programme and the erasmus+ training programme.
in writing. i was happy to support the compromise draft eu budget for 2016. with €155 billion for commitments and €143.9 billion for payments, it is the eu's largest budget ever. the budgetary resources for security and for the internal and external management and resolution of the migration crisis have been significantly increased. i am pleased that all available resources of the current eu multiannual financial framework have been used to address the migration crisis, in the form of an additional eur 1.6 billion. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). i consider the increase in the cosme programme's allocation for smes to be a very positive aspect of the approved eu budget for 2016, which should provide new impetus to the development of the european economy. lastly, i would like to highlight the push for increased funding for science and research (horizon 2020) and the erasmus plus student exchange programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 eu budget, which is a result of a compromise between the parliamentary committee on budgets and the council. although there is a possibility of financial difficulties in the near future related to the current crises, this budget should be sufficient for the areas of employment, enterprise and growth. the overall level of commitment appropriations in the 2016 budget is set at eur 155 004.2 million and of payment appropriations at eur 143 885.3 million. the flexibility instrument for 2016 is mobilised for an amount of eur 1 530 in commitment appropriations. the 2016 payment appropriations related to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in 2014, 2015 and 2016 are estimated by the commission at eur 832.8 million.
in writing. ‒ the current budget is close to the ceilings of the 2014-2020 mff ceiling. the adoption of the eu budget for the financial year 2016 would mean breaching the agreed ceiling and a necessary and substantial increase in the mff, and i do not support such spending.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection requesting the rejection of the derogation for authorisation of dehp phthalate for recycling, as phthalates are substances harmful to human health and dehp is identified as a potential carcinogen. they can be easily replaced in production by safer materials. i therefore do not support their recycling and re-introduction on the european market.
in writing. ‒ phthalates that are hazardous to health should not pose a risk to consumers. but it's a technical question, not a political one, what is a dangerous phthalate.
in writing. i supported the objection to the authorisation of bis ((2-ethylhexyl) -phthalate (dehp). the reach regulation classifies this substance as a substance of very high concern, but allows its use subject to authorisation by the european commission, in close cooperation with the european chemicals agency. the applications which were the subject of the objection vote complained that the definition of industrial use was too broad, so that it was not possible to carry out a reliable risk analysis and exclude harmful effects. i concluded, along with most of my colleagues, that the applicants had not been able to demonstrate that they adequately controlled the risks associated with deph use. in my view, the granting of an authorisation would thus expose not only workers who come into contact with the substance to health risks, but potentially all citizens who may encounter the substance in everyday products.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european parliament's resolution urging the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new proposal rejecting applications for authorisation of the formulation of recycled softened pvc containing dehp. the european union must do everything it can to protect the health of its citizens. we cannot accept any compromise, we cannot succumb to the pressure of business in this respect, which sees the use of dehp through the lens of low production costs. dehp is contained in pvc and is commonly used in everyday products such as clothing, furniture and building materials. since it is not chemically bound to artificial materials, it is easily released into the environment. it is a 'reprotoxic' substance that disrupts the proper functioning of the hormonal system and is particularly dangerous for pregnant women. we must at least ensure that european products do not contain dehp. therefore, it is also necessary to establish clear rules for the recycling of such products, in particular for the recycling of plastics.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's call on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision in question and instead prohibit the recycling of plastics containing toxic dehp phthalate for reuse, as this toxic substance poses specific and publicly acknowledged health risks. nor should the idea of recycling materials, which i generally support, justify the continued use of substances with dangerous effects. i hope that the member states will join the european parliament in its position today and that the commission will reject the proposal for an application for authorisation of a formulation of recycled pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament's objection to the repeal of the exemption allowing the use of bis (2-ethylhexyl) -phthalate (dehp) in manufacturing and did not support the objection. my position was motivated by the clear opinion of the czech republic and also of the european commission, to which we entrusted the power to adopt sub-legal standards in this matter. at this stage, there are no serious grounds for prohibiting deph. on the contrary, such a move would harm producers who do not yet have a commercially acceptable alternative for this substance. it is clear, however, that in the future it is these very alternatives that need to be encouraged in order to end the deph exemption in the eu one day.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to avert the commission’s proposal to authorise the recycling of old plastics containing diethylhexyl phthalate (dhep) into new pvc products. dhep is a softener banned by the eu’s reach regulation. there is scientific evidence that proves its negative impact on human health, especially its toxicity to male reproduction. deph is dangerous for workers that manufacture the products in which it can be found, such as textiles and furniture. moreover, it is not chemically bound to the plastic and can leak to the environment. i therefore supported the opinion that the commission should not allow the recycling of plastics that contain dhep.
in writing. a year after the luxleaks scandal was revealed, a report containing proposals for the european commission to tackle tax evasion and avoidance by multinational companies in the european union was presented to the european parliament's plenary. the controversial practices against which the ep has spoken are distorting competition in the internal market and reducing revenue for the state budget. among the actions discussed in the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect are the more efficient exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states or the harmonisation of the method of calculating corporate tax (rather than the rate). as a member of the committee, i have been involved in this issue for a long time and have therefore supported this report.
in writing. i am against tax harmonization in the form of a common consolidated corporate tax base. the proposal 'promotes the speedy introduction of a full and mandatory common consolidated corporate income tax base'.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on tax rulings and related measures. it's been about a year since the luxleaks scandal, the special committee of inquiry in the european parliament. i supported the establishment of this committee as well as the extension of its mandate. statistics show that the eu loses €1 trillion a year in taxes, which is roughly equivalent to the annual gdp of spain, the eu's fifth largest economy. so this is an alarming number. i am convinced of the need for joint eu cooperation in this area. we need to work together to tackle tax evasion, tax fraud, tax havens and aggressive tax planning. the report also envisages the harmonisation of taxation and fiscal policies in the eu. i don't think the member states are ready for that. in my view, taxation and fiscal policy should remain the sole responsibility of the member states. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report because i believe that the problem of tax rulings must be tackled, but i regret that the report has been infiltrated by a number of unfounded, irrational and dysfunctional proposals put forward by left-wing members, which unfortunately undermine the report's importance. examples include proposals to create new institutions, and thus new administrative burdens, in the form of a european body responsible for collecting sensitive commercial information and conducting investigations, or a pan-european whistleblower protection fund.
in writing. i voted for the report on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, because i believe that tax fraud and aggressive tax planning must be stopped. in the european union, up to eur 1 trillion of potential tax revenues is lost annually through tax fraud, evasion and shadow economy activities. this situation is not acceptable and fair for ordinary citizens or smes. they are forced to bear the tax burden instead of large multinational corporations, which can circumvent regulations and avoid paying taxes through the current opaque systems. in particular, i supported mandatory and public country-by-country reporting. a system that would be available to tax authorities and contain more detailed information. he voted for greater coordination between the member states, whose competence is direct taxation, and which must establish a common framework and approach to find solutions to better connect where value is created and where profits are taxed. i also called on the commission to start working on the legal protection of whistleblowers, whose role was crucial in the luxleaks scandal. i also supported the commission's role in sanctioning member states and companies for engaging in and deliberately concealing harmful tax practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that answers some of the questions that emerged in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. breaking out in november 2014, it revealed private tax arrangements between the luxembourg tax administration and more than 300 multinational corporations, which allowed them to achieve major tax reductions. the report makes several recommendations, based on the investigation by the european commission and by parliament’s special committee. following a critical overview of corporate tax practices in the member states, it calls on them to adopt concrete measures to prevent tax fraud. among them is simplification of tax systems, respect of the principle of profits taxation in the place they are generated, creation of an eu legislative framework for tax competition in the eu, coordination on advance tax rulings, increasing transparency by extensive country-by-country reporting system available to tax authorities.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against tax evasion and i am aware of the need to expose and take the necessary measures against unfair tax practices by companies. it is, after all, one year since the luxleaks scandal broke, which exposed luxembourg's unfair tax-transfer practices, during the period when jean-claude juncker, the current president of the european commission, was finance minister and prime minister of luxembourg. it has helped companies avoid paying billions of euros in taxes and robbed us, the member states and eu citizens, of vast sums in the form of income tax deductions. however, the fight against tax evasion must not be used to further deepen eu integration, for example in the form of the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, which is a risky step towards a single eu tax policy. member states must determine their own tax policy.
in writing. i supported the motion because i believe it is essential that we start to prevent radicalisation in, for example, school curricula and on the internet, where hate speech and radical views are spread. i also support the proposal to introduce a so-called european jihadist list so that we know exactly who to target. it is clear that all these steps will cost something, and therefore there is a need to discuss with them at the same time the increase of security funds.
in writing. the fight against terrorism and the security of the citizens of the european union is a key priority for the european union in the wake of the recent attacks by the islamic state in paris. the report by ms dati is important for this fight, as it proposes concrete steps to prevent eu citizens from being radicalised and potentially involved in is structures. some of the measures i voted for include important measures to counter the ability of terrorist organisations to target eu citizens online and the reflection of this issue in schools.
in writing. i do not agree that there should be a harmonised approach to the definition of the offence of hate speech online and offline, whereby radicals incite others to disrespect and violate fundamental rights, and thus to include this particular offence in the relevant council framework decisions. the eu may want to apply this crime to hate speech and calls for violence by radical islamists, but it can be ambiguous and it can also affect critics of islam. in my judgment, only incitement to violence should be a criminal offense, but never the criticism or caricature of religion itself. i am against the introduction of 'educational programmes to mobilise, train and network young activists'. it is a completely misguided and desperate approach by the eu to the threat of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on a very topical issue, the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. it's a very complicated subject. i agree with many of the points in the report, for example that we must fight the black market in arms, the black market in oil, which is a key source of income for terrorist organisations, and that those who have gone to syria or iraq to join or support terrorist organisations should not be allowed back into the eu. but then there are ideas in the report with which i cannot agree, such as the attempt to restrict the freedom of the internet altogether or the urgency of the passenger data directive. i also disagree with the fact that only the recent terrorist attack in paris is mentioned, but that the downing of a russian plane in sinai is no longer mentioned. i therefore could not support the report in its entirety and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report by mrs dati, which i believe makes a useful contribution to solving the pressing problem of european security. i see its importance in that it correctly identifies the weaknesses of the current legal framework, which should be filled with high-quality legislation to combat effectively the threat of terrorism and other forms of serious crime. i consider it important, inter alia, to establish a common definition of 'foreign fighter' for the purpose of prosecuting persons who may be so designated. given the increasing activity of radical groups (not only islamists) on the internet, it is necessary to ensure stricter monitoring of hate-speech websites. in this respect, i have high hopes for the newly established internet content reporting unit within europol, whose task is to detect illegal content and also to support the member states in doing so. i think that a lower tolerance for these phenomena is a path to a gradual improvement in the situation today.
in writing. ‒ first and foremost i would like to say that terrorism cannot be associated with any specific religion, nationality or civilization. i also will echo the report by saying that unless the spread of terrorism can be addressed, the risk of eu citizens joining extremist groups and returning home is something that needs to be stopped. to this end the council should disclose its action plan and guidelines regarding the eu’s strategy for combatting recruitment and radicalisation. another area that this needs to be addressed in is in our prison system. in doing so, we must continue to fully respect the human rights if inmates. overall, to stop the spread of radicalisation we need to focus on the benefits of education and inclusion. with these aims we can help to end stem the flow of eu citizens to terrorist and extremist groups and promote peace.
in writing. the issue of preventing radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations would be important even if there were no wave of migration and terrorist attacks. the european parliament's report takes a comprehensive view and proposes solutions at both national and eu level. we must learn from the risks of a multicultural society, which are the ghettos, the excluded localities, the under-educated and unemployed generations of young people who have no prospects for life. the great risk is the spread of radical islam in mosques across europe, on the one hand, and the radicalization of anti-islamic militants within europe, on the other. in our report, we propose a number of practical measures to counter radicalisation in prisons, better control of the internet as a platform for the rapid spread of terrorist propaganda, better education and work with vulnerable young people and parents. we also need more effective work by europol and eurojust, or better linking of internal and external security instruments. but none of this will be enough if we continue to have a growing number of disillusioned and frustrated young people who are easy prey to radical ideology. the search for meaning in life is a human need, and it involves a spiritual need. europe is built on christian foundations and we should not abandon the spiritual riches of our predecessors. what we need is a combination of freedom and responsibility, solidarity and security.
in writing. i have today given my unequivocal support to the report on preventing radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations, partly because it brings new ideas which, if put into practice, will help to counter security threats on our territory. the report focuses on preventing terrorist radicalisation on the internet, as a significant part of the indoctrination and recruitment process takes place there. while i am a proud advocate of freedom of speech, i agree that there should be the possibility of taking legal action against internet companies that refuse to comply with a legal authority's requirement to remove illegal content from their internet platform, and that in the extreme case such actions can be considered as aiding and abetting comparable to criminal intent or negligence. after the recent attacks in paris, we must confront evil on all fronts, always with the rule of law at our side, but firmly and uncompromisingly. for the same reason, i supported the idea of harmonising the definition of a criminal offence for hate speech online and offline, whereby radicals incite others to disrespect and violate fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'preventing radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations', which is obviously topical but was initiated by the european people's party's parliamentary club before the paris attacks. it should be noted that this is not a debate in the legislative process and is therefore a contribution by the european parliament to the debate on effective means of preventing radicalisation and of responding to the activities of those already radicalised. this is primarily an appeal to the member states which have the powers to respond to these dangers. new dangers, such as the use of the internet for recruitment to terrorist organisations, need to be addressed in the general debate on how best to ensure an adequate level of security and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which sets out recommendations on the issue of preventing radicalisation of eu citizens leading to violent terrorism. over the last year, europe became the target of terrorist attacks led by its own citizens; i believe a concerted eu approach is needed as regards preventing and countering this radicalisation. in particular eu cooperation should be intensified as regards the exchange of sensitive information and i am in this respect in favour of finalising the eu pnr by the end of this year. eu cooperation also needs common standards and judicial control for terrorism prosecution as well as a harmonised approach to the definition as a criminal offence of hate speech. lastly, as we know radicalisation is to a large extent happening through the internet and social media, i find of utmost importance to intensify the cooperation between internet companies and member states for the identification of people involved in terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ i am certainly against bullying in the workplace, but it is not for the eu to deal with this.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on occupational safety and health, a subject which, as a doctor, i have dealt with extensively, particularly during the last parliamentary term. it is clear that occupational accidents and diseases are a serious burden on society and must be prevented in such a way that workers enjoy good health and can work until a proper retirement. at the same time, new research on occupational diseases (e.g. the probability of developing different diseases by age group), psychosocial risks such as stress at work, the negative effects of certain substances such as asbestos or nanomaterials on human health, etc. should be addressed. the report therefore calls on the commission to develop an employment strategy covering all types of employment within the osh regulatory framework and to set indicative targets with the member states for reducing the number of occupational diseases and accidents, while respecting the latest peer-reviewed scientific evidence. i fully agree with the content of the report, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. – i am glad that parliament has voted in support of occupational health and safety. it is important that all employees across all sectors have the right to the highest level of protection in the workplace. furthermore, specific measures need to be put in place in order to improve health and safety at work. however, it is disappointing that the current eu-osh framework was delayed and in the future it should be done and applied in a timely and effective manner. the next step is enforcement; legislation is only effective if it is enforced. i encourage member states to ensure equal opportunity and protection of labour rights, as well as rights to health care, especially for those who are most vulnerable in society.
‒ more than 4 000 workers die each year as a result of work-related injuries, and the number of fatal work-related diseases is unfortunately many times higher, reaching up to 150 000 cases per year. both these high figures are alarming and measures must be taken to help bring them down radically. we should also focus on monitoring the strict observance of these measures. anyone can be the victim of a workplace accident. for these reasons too, i supported the report.
‒ although the report has no direct legislative implications, it is a strong call for action by the eu institutions and member states in the field of osh. given the high number of small and micro enterprises in the eu, the call to the european commission and the member states to increase their efforts in collecting data on the actual application of the rules in the field and on occupational diseases is welcome. the aim is to establish more clearly the health indicators and definitions of the most important occupational diseases that need to be fully addressed at union level and to find solutions to prevent them. the european commission will then have information available to help it target those member states where ineffective implementation of eu rules may be occurring, when monitoring the practical application of osh directives in individual member states. on the other hand, the labour inspectorates of the member states should have access to available data on repeat infringers of osh rules. i also welcome the exchange of information between labour inspectors in the member states and the call for the progressive elimination of unsafe forms of work. workers who are party to atypical employment contracts are the most vulnerable in this respect and usually have difficulty accessing osh services and training.
in writing. ‒ over the last year the european union has been working on the drawing up of an improved framework for a safe and healthy environment. i supported this report, which proposes some new measures to be included in this framework. although safety at work is already heavily regulated, accidents and work-related diseases still kill thousands of workers per year. this proves we urgently need a simplified and more effective legislative framework, through which, in particular, we should better address the specific situation of smes. in line with the objective of better regulation i support new legislations when based on tangible data and thorough impact assessment and therefore i am calling on member states and the commission to improve the collection of data in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the commission communication on the strategic framework. however, such a framework needs to be complemented by specific legislative measures such as the muscular disorders directive. social dialogue, worker representation and management engagement are important for successful risk prevention in the workplace. i believe that more efforts are needed, both at member state and eu level, to ensure training for health and safety representatives and to encourage the use of their services. i also believe it is important to prevent risks in the area of mental health, where new occupations lead to psychosocial disorders, for example.
mrs mogherini, mr president, the terrible terrorist acts that took place in paris, what is happening in brussels, is the result of a misguided policy of inviting migrants to europe. and i am very sorry for where this policy of multiculturalism has gotten us. i had the opportunity to meet with the head of the kurdish home guard in syria recently, and she told me that when they liberated a syrian town from the islamists, they found a camp where people from europe were training, not to fight for the islamic state in syria, but to return to fight in europe. and we're being forced to have immigration quotas. but we can't accept migrants for one reason only, and that's our own security. if we want to help someone for humanitarian reasons, let's set up a refugee center in turkey and let the person we screen into europe. we're dealing with the biggest security crisis in the world, and you, ms. mogherini, have decided to hurt our main ally in the middle east, which is israel, by forcing it to label products. they're marked as jewish products from the west bank. you don't dare for russia to label crimean products, or for china to label tibetan products, or for turkey to label products from the turkish republic of northern cyprus. you dare to attack israel and i am ashamed of this policy. and what did you agree to in valletta, malta? that africa is going to be sent philanthropists, hundreds of millions of euros, to do the same kind of nonsensical projects that are being funded here in europe. why don't you just push for the liberalization of trade with african countries so they don't have to have quotas on oranges, quotas on figs, quotas on dates. why send them charity instead of destroying their economy? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. that's exactly what i wish i had, but what didn't happen in malta. an agreement with one of the african countries or with turkey to set up a refugee facility there, perhaps funded by the european union. there, to register refugees and remotely, to apply for asylum in germany or other countries that want them. and to go to these countries after the inspection. but if no one wants them, if they don't get asylum at a distance, they can't come to europe. but he certainly didn't do this summit in valletta, malta.
mr president, the migration from africa is somewhat overshadowed by the migration from syria, but that does not make it any less serious, and that is why it is good that the european union is investing in security and stability in africa. because we need prevention, we need to prevent migration flows. but prevention alone would not be enough. we also need restrictions, and unfortunately, again, i have heard nothing from this summit about strengthening the protection of the external borders of the european union. i think that is unacceptable, the commission is not doing enough, we are hearing chancellor merkel repeating the mantra of permanent quotas. she even said we had to choose between permanent redistribution and the schengen system. i read in a french weekly that 94% of the french would be in favour of reintroducing border controls, and if the question is put in this way, i am convinced that european citizens will choose border controls and that schengen will unfortunately disappear. if the european union and especially the european commission don't take care of the protection of the external borders.
mr president, the november valletta summit was an important precedent in that it finally began to address the refugee crisis in cooperation with the african union states and thus to address the essence of the whole problem. as the summit noted, it is essential to address africa's socioeconomic development, to promote stability, peace and the building of the rule of law. these are necessary but long-term solutions. but the crisis is in full swing right now, and that's why we need immediate action as well. we should realize that the influx of refugees is impossible to stop. people will always do everything in their power to protect their families from civil war and violence. that's why we should focus our efforts on controlling the influx of refugees. the first step should be to prevent more deaths of refugees in the mediterranean. the european union must be persistent in its fight against organised smuggling networks. the eu's operation sophia, which is designed to disrupt smuggling operations, is therefore the right move. we must therefore also create the conditions for asylum in the european union to be granted only in specialised centres in third countries, such as the one recently set up by the european union in turkey.
mr president, i would like to stress that we need to reform the asylum procedures in the light of the outcome of the valletta summit. europe must speak with one voice. but even the responsibility of the nation states cannot be dismissed. we cannot underestimate the security risks associated with the uncontrolled influx of immigrants into europe. at the same time, i would like to say that the right to asylum and our help should be reserved for those who are peaceful. we are aware of our duty to help, we want to be in solidarity with those who really need our help, who are in danger of losing their lives. however, those who do not prove their identity and local origin, who do not cooperate in the asylum procedure and who do not dispel any doubts about their security risks, cannot enjoy the right to asylum. aid to refugees is intended to be temporary and, once the danger passes, they should be returned to their countries of origin, even if it is in their own interests.
mr president, the valletta summit has produced important results, although i hear criticism here. but i think it's important to help the countries where refugees come from or through which refugees come to us in europe. immediately after the summit, the czech republic committed to a financial contribution of eur 600 000. but i was also moved to make this speech by the speech of high representative mogherini, whose work i appreciated, but did not understand the words when she said that it was not possible to build a border between africa and europe because there is a sea. i hope it was just a misunderstanding. there is certainly a border between europe and africa, and the european union must do everything to make the external borders of the european union secure.
mr president, i am very saddened by the spiral of violence that is repeatedly unfolding in this country, in a situation where the democratic process has already been established. i think it is worth noting that the european commission, and the presidency, are also aware of this danger. and it's important that we demand at least three basic requirements. first, an immediate end to the violence. that's a clear requirement i think of all of us here. secondly, the urgent need for aid to refugees. i think we can't just limit ourselves to the middle east and north africa, but we have to be aware of these risks in these other african states as well. and third, we need to return to democratic processes. i think we have the means and the ability to enforce these three legitimate demands.
mr. chairman, i have to say that for me, the morning we woke up to the election results coming in from myanmar was a very good opportunity to appreciate the development that has taken place over the past few years. and although i understand the critical objections that have been raised by some of my colleagues here about not being able to vote for certain ethnic groups, i think we should support the process that has been initiated in myanmar. i think we should also support the activities of the winner of the election, ms. su ji, who has the greatest responsibility now. and to ask the high representative and, of course, the presidency to make every effort to support the democratic process that has just been launched in burma. the determination, the effort of the people of myanmar, that was seen on the cameras in those pictures, those happy faces, those smiles, i think we should support them, because that is our common future.
for the ppe group. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, i witnessed the revolutionary fall of two regimes in georgia. the fall of the regime of president gamsakhurdia and the fall of the regime of president shevardnadze. i therefore highly appreciate that the last change of the ruling line-up was carried out on the basis of democratic elections and that georgia was again freed from part of the old soviet burden. it's going to be a long time before we can get out of this legacy. evidence of this may include attempts to reincarnate the statue of joseph stalin, the construction of new monuments to him, and worship at demonstrations. even selective justice and the criminalization of former political structures is a burden from the past. we could see it very clearly a few days ago. at a meeting of our foreign affairs committee, the minister of justice of georgia has just compared former president saakashvili to stalin. even the unhealthy tension between the ruling gd (georgian dream) and the opposition unm (united national movement) is a blemish of the past. take the current unacceptable developments around the independent tv station rustavi 2. after all, the plurality of information and freedom of expression are among the fundamental values of a democratic society. a few years ago, i was a journalist filming a tv report on yevgeny dzhugashvili. he is the grandson of the aforementioned joseph stalin. he lives in tbilisi. we may think that the fringe communist party he founded is ridiculous and not dangerous. but a ghost from the past is circling georgia and could do serious damage to the country. ladies and gentlemen, last december, we approved an association agreement with georgia in this very place. the agreement is based on strict respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i wish georgia a lot of courage and strength. we need a georgia with a consolidated political scene.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, georgia has destroyed infrastructure, destroyed industry and yet, despite having only 11 per cent of the caucasus region's gross domestic product, it is a key country for the stabilisation of the caucasus. it has excellent energy potential, electricity is now georgia's main export item more than wine or brandy. i would say that it is high time that some marshall plan for the caucasus was adopted, which would open the way to national reconciliation. in the past, georgia has had outstanding cultural and intellectual personalities such as mamardasvili, begiašvili, cavtchavadze, abuladze and others. today it's poverty and decay. i think that culturally these countries are very close to each other, they have a lot of potential that we should develop, and there is also one of the few opportunities for us to prove the functioning of the eastern partnership. because we're not handling the eastern partnership yet. neither in the case of ukraine, nor in the case of moldova, nor in the case of belarus, nor in the case of the caucasus countries. my friends, i think it's high time we took action and stopped making empty proclamations. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think that question is beyond the scope of our discussion today. it was not i who said that his political role models were stalin and the mongrel berija, it was saakashvili who said that these two were his role models. my country, it was forced, of course, under the pressure of stalin, to change its course and also abandon the original path it had set after the second world war. but that's another matter. i think this is an opportunity for historians, not for members of the european parliament. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the question posed by the blue card. i listened with interest to your words, which sounded very pleasant. however, i want to ask, if you called for some marshall plan for georgia, will georgia or the caucasus not be threatened with a similar rejection of the marshall plan as the communists ensured after 1945 within czechoslovakia?
answer the question by raising the blue card. things were a lot more complicated with the marshall plan. i'll give you one example that shows how unnecessarily politicized the atmosphere was back then. when the drought hit czechoslovakia in 1947, there was a huge crop failure and there were two countries that actually gave the possibility to get grain for our country, but both gave political conditions. the situation was so dire that an offer was considered from the americans and the soviets, but a third country that offered no political conditions, canada, was rejected.
mr speaker, when in 2012 the georgian dream won the elections and saakashvili's party handed over power, it was a great moment of democracy and i think georgia demonstrated its great transformational effort. it is not only a country with great energy potential, but also a key ally and partner for europe in the caucasus. that's why i welcome the reforms that have taken place in this country. i think it must not be silenced, it is important that the rule of law be deepened and not weakened by politicization. and if georgia persists in this endeavor, i think our hearts are open.
mr president, the turbulent history, the varied ethnic structure, the de facto closure of the borders between the different states - all this has created a fertile ground for many contradictions in moldova. when wild privatization and corruption were added to all this, the problem was solved. and it took so little for this promised land to flourish, both in climate and soil quality. it took as little as a few thousand dollars to get to syria. all it took was a deal between the powers to work together. but the european union disliked president voronin's proposals for a transnistrian agreement with russia, ukraine and other states disliked moldova's accession to romania, and washington is using its influence to weaken moscow's position. so the lawful result came. and moldova is the one hundred and fourteenth and poorest in all of europe. the european union certainly cannot boast of playing a role in moldova in order to calm political tensions, to curb crime, corruption and political processes. and if anyone wants to look into the eyes of moldovan women, they have a chance. here sits the wife of grigory petrenko, who is wrongfully behind bars.
mr president, i would really like to emphasize the chaos or political instability in which moldova is now found and the need for our concrete support. after the parliamentary elections last year, of course, and the fall of two governments. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's macro-financial assistance to moldova. otherwise, their eyes will actually turn elsewhere, and i think we all know in this room where they might turn. we must support moldovan farmers and we have done so in several acts adopted, and what moldova needs today perhaps most is our firm determination to stand by moldova even in this difficult time. i firmly believe that all of us in this room stand with this democratic process in moldova.
mr. chairman, thank you for recognizing my traditional role along with mr. marias. i would like to start by congratulating the commissioner on his recent success. i'm very grateful for that, because its success will help to remove barriers to the education of young people. i would like to remind you that we have just adopted the report by mrs datiova, which has a section which deals directly with the issue of education as a means of preventing the radicalisation of young people. i would like to quote from this report that it is the schools and the education process that play a central role in helping to promote inclusion in society, to develop critical thinking. i am very pleased with the rapporteur's work and i support her because it will help to educate these children who are now heading for europe in the wave of migration.
for the alde group. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, i thank all the members of the european court of auditors for calling, when presenting the 2014 accounts, for aligning the budget with the long-term strategic priorities of the european union and for increasing the ability of the european funds to respond more flexibly to europe's current needs. i think this new approach to investment and expenditure management is very appropriate at european level. as rapporteur for the 2014 discharge of the european commission, i am heading in the same direction. my first priority is to try to emphasise performance and real economic impact, not just legal and formal documentation. we need to find a new balance between adherence to formalities and a stronger focus on results. i believe that the way in which european money is managed needs to be looked at in a comprehensive and contextual way. if that money is public, its management must be subject to competent, objective and transparent controls. far from comparing the reality of the resources spent with the formally adopted rules, the economy of public resources begins for me by determining what each specific expenditure and their total amount have actually brought in a given period. my second priority is to help the union meet its commitments and start to showcase its achievements. we need to stop looking for mistakes and shortcomings, but also to show examples of good practice that have high added value and can inspire us for the future. my third priority is to work closely with the relevant partners across the eu institutions. the european court of auditors' annual report refers in several places to a performance culture as a necessary feature for the sound financial management of public resources reallocated through the european union budget in the long term. if we can achieve this performance culture together and gain a common understanding of it, i will consider my 2014 graduation target to be met. in conclusion, let me quote a czech proverb that says: 'good accounts make good friends.' i believe that the effort to manage european funds economically and to avoid unnecessary losses unites us across the member states and across the political spectrum in this difficult time.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. sulky, when there's a high level of corruption, what should a good citizen do? he should go and report this corruption to the proper authorities. if you know the european union is corrupt, why don't you go and report and present evidence of this corruption? i think if you're not a populist, you're capable of presenting this evidence.
the european parliament and the european court of auditors have long been calling for a comprehensive review of the european budget, which is not aligned with the overall strategy of the european union. the use of the budget lacks vision, foresight and context. money is therefore spent to be spent, and its value added is often limited. ladies and gentlemen, i am therefore pleased that the european court of auditors has sent a clear signal in its audit that there is a need to reassess the overall strategy for the management of the european union's funds. it is clear at this point that we must have long-term objectives which are based on the unity of the european states. a common mind and a willingness to respond together to sudden events, like the one in paris. we need to invest money better, smarter and more efficiently. this will also lead to a more efficient use of the european budget.
the author. madam president, the european union must not allow violence against minorities, such as that in the zabul region of afghanistan, to go unchallenged. the kidnapping and subsequent massacre of seven civilians, including women and a small child, from the hazara minority took place here. and this is not the first and only case of suppression of the rights of this minority. similar incidents have been occurring regularly for over two years. the abduction and killing of civilians are serious violations of international humanitarian law, which all parties to the conflict are obliged to observe. including the ones in afghanistan. i and my faction unequivocally condemn the attacks by the taliban, al-qaeda, the islamic state and other terrorist organisations against afghan civilians, security forces and democratic institutions and the whole of civil society.
madam president, a family of seven has been killed. the family of seven was a khazarian family. i think we need to extend our investigation of human rights violations from this family to the entire khazarian nation. the hazaras live in the central hindu kush of hazarajat. there are about three million of them, and they have been systematically and traditionally attacked by pashtun tribes for at least two hundred years. and that's because the khazars are shiites and, moreover, they are hated for their physiognomy. let's not forget that they are the descendants of genghis khan's soldiers, who conquered these parts of afghanistan as early as the 13th century. that's why we must support the afghan government politically and militarily. we cannot afford to leave afghanistan because there is a danger of a large theocratic pakistani-afghan nuclear entity.
madam president, after hearing the author, mrs valera, i have decided to change the content of my speech because i was provoked by a colleague who is no longer here. she blamed the quick withdrawal of coalition troops from afghanistan. well, i almost think that's a joke, because even the democratic candidates for president of the united states today recognize that it was the rapid withdrawal from iraq and afghanistan that created the power vacuum that powers and fuels such destructive elements as isis and the taliban. i would like to say that it is precisely in this vacuum that the space is created for murder, ethnic cleansing, national cleansing and, in fact, the phenomena that we condemn here. and if we think we can fight this uncivilized movement by writing a resolution, we are deeply mistaken. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. to your question, i don't think that deeply. i don't think that the quick withdrawal from afghanistan and iraq has created peace and a good situation in that part of the world. what you're presenting here is really a view that is rejected today by those who were involved in the rapid withdrawal from afghanistan, that is, the administration of president obama.
madam president, speaking today about afghanistan, it must be said that its extremely difficult situation is not only due to circumstances originating in afghanistan itself but also to the situation in the region as a whole. the security of all citizens of afghanistan, including the various minorities, is the first condition for the further stabilisation of the development of that country. a country that is home to several terrorist organizations at once cannot be left to its own devices. assistance to the afghan government needs to continue to be provided in order to increase its capacity to ensure the security of its citizens. the appalling murder of a minority member continues to remind us that the situation in afghanistan is extremely complex. however, there are now examples that give hope that the situation can be improved and the positive trend maintained. the european union must, however, contribute to this positive trend and not limit its aid.
madam president, i think it is right that the european parliament wants to comment on the situation in afghanistan. and i'm also glad that the voice that's being heard here is across the political spectrum. i think we cannot remain silent about the violence by the taliban, particularly against the ethnic minority of the hazaras, and i think it is our duty to support the voices of the tens of thousands of protesters on the streets of kabul. it has a great deal to do with the situation of the migration crisis, which we often discuss here in the european parliament. after all, afghans are the second largest group in the european union, after syrian refugees, who make up 20 percent of the population. that's almost seven percent of the asylum seekers who come from afghanistan. and so i strongly support the european parliament's urgent call to president ghani and prime minister abdullah to take appropriate action to address the current unfortunate situation of gross human rights violations.
madam president, i believe that these are indeed connected vessels. that is, the combined vessel of our aid to cambodia, but also their respect for the other side's demands. we have adopted a resolution here which has already called on cambodia, perhaps more than once, to respect political rights. cambodia is a relatively homogeneous country, both ethnically and religiously, and it cannot, in my opinion, transfer this homogeneity to other areas, such as human rights. but i also think we should really sweep up our own front door. the multinational companies that are based in the european union and to some extent exploit the situation in this country or even plunder its territory and nature, i think we should deal with that here at home.
author.– madam president, freedom of speech and expression is fundamental to all democracies, including bangladesh. the bangladeshi constitution guarantees these freedoms to all of its citizens in article 39. it also states that only reasonable restrictions can be imposed on these freedoms. i believe we would all agree that murder at the hands of religious extremists for writing an internet blog is not a reasonable restriction. these acts of extremist violence are nothing less than acts of terrorism, terrorist acts on a par with the attacks on charlie hebdo in paris. we are ready to work with the bangladeshi government to fight such terrorists and to help them to counter extremist movements in their country, but the government must also continue to work to make clear to its citizens, through its words and deeds, that there can be no justification for these crimes. no offence to religion or morality can justify murder.
madam president, i must say that i very much welcomed the awarding of the sakharov prize to mr badawi this year, because this saudi blogger reflects a group that is committed to freedom of expression, and this is actually the issue on which a resolution was formed by all the factions united in our parliament. we're proving that freedom of speech is absolutely essential to us. and in political speech, the discussion, the free exchange of ideas is absolutely key. the accusations that have been levelled against journalists in bangladesh are clearly fabricated. i call on the government to instead prosecute the crimes, the murders, the kidnappings, the terror that civilians are subjected to in this country and to drop these fabricated, baseless accusations against journalists.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the eu has to make clear that it is fully committed to this negotiation and especially to its full conclusion as early as possible. this is the message that we need to send to all the negotiating parties before the meeting.
in writing. ‒ the eu was created to promote free trade, among other things. free trade with a free market is perhaps the most essential thing that can improve the overall quality of life of citizens. the eu must therefore promote the development and liberalisation of trade and free markets worldwide. for this reason, i also supported the structural reform of the wto, which will better guarantee an open, fair and rules-based trading system and also take more fully into account the interests and needs of different economic actors, including smes, right up to start-ups.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this resolution is to reiterate the eu’s commitment to the doha development agenda (dda) in view of the upcoming 10th wto ministerial conference, which will take place in december 2015 in kenya. i supported the resolution because i identify with the principles it stresses. the eu’s key objective is a multilateral approach to trade and liberalisation by opening up the market and removing restrictive measures. the resolution puts a special emphasis on the needs of low-income developing countries and least developed countries. at the same time, it brings up the interests of certain economic operators, such as smes and start-ups. in order to better accommodate them and to achieve an open and fair trading system, it pledges for a structural reform of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of expanding free trade, but if we are dealing with trade, a simple agreement to remove trade barriers between two or more states is sufficient.
in writing. ‒ together with the social democratic group, i was pleased to support the continuing negotiations on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement that the european union concluded in 2012 with two other andean states, colombia and peru. i think this step will benefit both sides in the future, ecuador by significantly increasing exports to europe, opening up the space for europeans to invest again. as in the case of the agreement with the two south american countries, the european union is also able to press for greater emphasis on human and labour rights or environmental issues by ecuador. south america is a strategic partner for europe and i see a very good way forward in strengthening diplomatic and trade relations with its countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador on its accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. it is expected to benefit ecuador’s exports to the eu and to boost trade and investment on both sides. at the same time, it should facilitate economic and social development and contribute to reducing poverty. the resolution sets out specifics tasks for both partners. on one hand, it appeals to ecuador to ensure consistency with its wto and trade agreement commitments and remove market-access obstacles. on the other hand, it invites the commission and the european external action service to play an active role in guaranteeing sustainable development. i consider it important that the report emphasises human rights and democracy and urges the government of ecuador to promote them.
madam president, it is difficult to speak after this joke by my colleague mr kelly, but i would like to say that i supported this motion for a resolution also because it improves the dialogue with all the parties concerned, because we must also look at the situation and the possibilities on the international scene, how to improve animal protection from an international point of view. european society is certainly advanced in this respect, we try to respect animal husbandry standards, improve their welfare, but we also have some reservations. for example, not only in the fur farms that mr. hurry talked about, but also in the dog breeding farms. that's a bit of a neo-poly field, and in my country, it's a big problem. i'd like to draw attention to that. i was happy to support this motion for a resolution, but we have work to do in our own field.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. of course, i am not against good living conditions for animals and the proposal contains a number of positive points and planned steps, but there are still some proposals which, in my view, cannot be supported. for example, the prohibition of hunting, which has a long historical tradition in the czech republic, with the fact that hunting overproduced animals is of course beneficial. and then the requirement to kill fish only under anesthesia, so we'd probably be forced to forgive ourselves for our traditional christmas carp, and last but not least, a complete ban on animal research. i therefore did not agree with the motion in general and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this resolution that i supported is to urge the commission to implement the points that are still pending from the eu strategy on the protection and welfare of animals 2012–2015 and to draw up a new strategy for 2016–2020 period. at the same time, it recalls the principle of administrative simplification and warns that the new strategy should not add more burdens on producers. among other things, the resolution highlights the potential of eu legislation on animal welfare to contribute to a level playing field within the eu and to mitigate comparative disadvantages for producers.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this resolution, which calls on the commission to prepare a new ambitious animal welfare strategy. i am convinced that a level playing field throughout the union is needed in this area, and thus that the internal market is to be promoted. one of my priorities is also to promote consumer protection, as i believe that such a strategy will also help consumers to make more informed choices and thus better exercise their rights. finally, i supported this resolution because the welfare of animals is linked to animal health and ultimately to public health, which is the health of each of us.
madam president, i would like to raise the issue of radicalisation of young people in the field of education. the radicalization of those children who have no future in education here. and also to draw attention to the problem of children who are now heading to europe in the migration wave. we must give these children a future in education, because as the report by mrs datiová points out, the prevention of youth radicalisation is always linked to the role of the education system. that is why i supported both mrs dati's report and this motion for a resolution, because i believe that education is the most fundamental value we can give to the children who are coming to europe today, who do not necessarily have a future, and who, when they return to the areas from which they came, will undoubtedly serve as a certain factor in reducing the mood in society, which is radical.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with discriminating against some students at the expense of others.
in writing. the un estimates that there are now 1 billion children living in conflict-affected areas, 250 million of them under the age of five, and they are denied the basic right to education, and in total, in conflict-affected countries, there are about 37 million children out of school, which is a very alarming number. i wonder what kind of children these children will grow up to be and whether we are witnessing the birth of a so-called lost generation. children who are not in school are more likely to be recruited into armed forces or groups, a topic that is more than just a hot topic today. i stress that the right to education is one of the fundamental human rights and rights of every child and plays a crucial role in integration. because i attach great importance to education, even in the extreme conditions of conflict, natural disasters or other crisis situations, i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution because i think it is important to point out that in the context of the unstable and internal conflicts in the world's countries, children are the most vulnerable group. it is logical that we focus our attention on the countries that are the biggest source of migration into the eu. the creation of the becou trust fund, the madad trust fund and the africa trust fund is a major step forward, and can be effective tools to address the frequent conflict between humanitarian and development aid, i.e. immediate aid in the sense of providing 'first aid' to vulnerable areas on the one hand, and longer-term and more comprehensive aid aimed at creating the conditions for self-sufficiency. i would therefore strongly urge the eu and the member states to make the education of children one of the key priorities in the allocation of resources from the eu trust funds, as a necessary part of efforts to improve the situation in the longer term.
in writing. ‒ this resolution draws attention to the situation of children stuck in conflicts, which the current refugee crisis makes ever more distressing. these numbers are worryingly large, with the un estimating that one billion children are affected worldwide and almost 10 million as refugees. i voted in favour of the resolution, promoting education as a human right and uninterrupted learning in spite of conflicts. since education offers a perspective for a decent life, i believe that all children should be able to share this vision. regarding refugee children, the resolution calls on hosting countries to include them in national education systems as much as possible. moreover, it calls on the commission and the member states to establish ‘education corridors’ to ensure that students from countries in conflict, in particular syria, iraq and eritrea, are admitted to universities. to finance the proposed measures, the resolution asks for increased resources, beyond the less than 2% of all humanitarian funds that this policy area received in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because i consider education to be key to the recovery of countries affected by disasters or war and consequently to boosting the economies of countries. educated people in particular can move society forward, and educated people with critical thinking are less influenced and can contribute to the building of democracy. i believe education is also a powerful tool needed to create a sense of normalcy and to raise awareness of rights and to help children and adolescents overcome trauma, reintegrate into society after conflict ends, acquire the skills needed to rebuild society and promote peace and reconciliation.
madam president, companies not only in the czech republic but also in other member states of the european union do not want to do european projects. they don't want to do them precisely because of how complex they are, how much administrative burden they involve. i am glad that we are trying to go down the road of simplification, because that is the only way to maintain any interest in european projects, in european funds. we should focus on achieving results, on measuring those results, on sustaining results in practice, not on just the cheap or misleading administrative burden. for your information, in the czech republic, the rural development programme, which is part of the european funds, contains rules on 700 pages. what kind of a budding farmer would want to read this kind of material?
in writing. ‒ i abstained in order not to oppose the simplification of the rules, but i do not agree with this policy in principle.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is the biggest investment tool at our disposal to achieve the europe 2020 goals. i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out recommendations to the commission and the member states on how to maximise the use and the efficiency of the fund. up to now and although there were previous attempts to simplify it, the procedures remained too cumbersome for both the managing authorities and the beneficiaries, preventing, in particular, smes and ngos from making full use of it. the resolution calls on the commission to develop guidelines on simplification and provide the member states with a roadmap for monitoring and reporting activities. lastly the commission and the member states should work closer together with the beneficiaries to make sure the procedures’ rules match their needs.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this resolution, which aims to motivate both the commission and the member states to simplify the process of drawing up european money. although some simplification efforts have been made, i think that the drawdown is very difficult for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially if they have lower administrative and financial capacities. through this resolution, i call on the commission to put in place detailed guidelines to simplify the whole process at national and local level in the context of public procurement processes, project selection and monitoring and control. in my view, in addition to simplifying the draw-up process, it is necessary to simplify ex-post control by introducing the 'single audit principle' and by focusing more on performance audits, which can better assess the efficiency and effectiveness of operations and lead to proposals for simplification.
madam president, commissioners, let us have a look at the current facts. the current facts are: the waste package has been stuck in the council, the eu has been split, we have member states with a pretty bad record on waste management, we have falsification of data, we have differing data, we do not have definitions, etc. this is the real situation and, against that background, i think you have come up with a concept. that is what i would like to underline and what i appreciate. of course, we can discuss figures – a 65% or a 70% target, etc. – but i think that we need to be ambitious in terms of putting the concept into practice. that is why i think that the cold shower you have received from some of my colleagues may not be entirely justified. i would make two remarks. one is that, in terms of definitions and the latest statistics, this will not be easy. but, apart from the economic incentives, let us look at what we could do in terms of tax, fiscal and other incentives. this is much broader. i am sorry, i have to finish, but i am sure we will have more time in the future, and i have a few ideas for the future.
in writing. the question of product durability, repairability, but also, for example, the impact of the constant replacement of consumer goods on the environment, has recently come to the forefront of consumer policy issues in the eu, and i therefore consider it important to respond to questions such as the obsolescence of products or spare parts. i welcome that one of the stated objectives of the action plan presented by the commission today is to promote the reparability, longer life and recyclability of products. i also support the idea of independent testing to help detect potential cases of planned obsolescence of products. consumer organisations have often pointed out recently the increased trend of using components that break down after a short period of use, are expensive or impossible to replace, and which unnecessarily force consumers to buy new goods. the plan presented is the first step requested by the european parliament and therefore a welcome one, but we also need concrete legislative proposals. the commission has already done so today on waste. i believe that the proposals on the production phase of consumer goods will soon follow and will be focused primarily on the end consumer.
this mechanism, which frontex should put in place, is undoubtedly important and necessary in view of the increased number of people coming to the eu. however, it must be ensured that it operates effectively and only deals with relevant complaints. i am therefore strongly in favour of not allowing applications to be submitted anonymously, thereby preventing abuse of the system. in any event, the identity of complainants must be protected and their data handled with the utmost care.
for the ecr group. commissioner, as a former mayor of ostrava and a former head of the moravian-silesian region, i have a long personal experience with mobility issues in urban areas. in these roles, i have been in frequent contact with colleagues from all over europe, and so i know that each region, each city, has its own specific conditions and different needs, due to its history. and we must respect them as we must respect the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her activity and for taking into account some of our comments. however, a number of problematic provisions remain on the table. i have questions about sustainable urban mobility plans, for example, and i am opposed to the idea of banning first diesel engines and then all conventional fuel vehicles. urban mobility projects should certainly be supported, but i am against earmarking eu funds or motorway toll revenue. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. i certainly agree that sustainable urban transport is needed, mobility is very important. but a one-time effort to ban a particular type doesn't solve transportation. decarbonization can go in different directions, it can be quality, scientific research. we don't know what's going to happen in two, three years in the automotive market. i am very humble and i have a great respect for scientific progress as such.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work. i believe that the key to solving the long-term problems of european cities with traffic exhalation and congestion is to promote public transport and the need to better organise it, especially in terms of connecting suburban areas to city centres. good access to public transport is a prerequisite for its increased use. the further development of new transport technologies and telematics applications offering the possibility to search for optimal routes will undoubtedly have a crucial impact on the smoothness of urban mobility. another major issue is the protection of vulnerable road users. for these too, a safe infrastructure with adequate space for their movement must exist in the first place, in order to make our call for the use of sustainable mobility methods credible.
mr president, i fear that the european union is dealing with serious security risks these days, yet i think it is also right that we are also dealing with this longstanding issue of promoting equal rights, equal representation of women. the czech government has just adopted its resolution today, in which it has included itself among the countries which are in favour of the directive, thus expressing its symbolic position on this issue. we therefore aim to improve the representation of women in the decision-making bodies of large companies, and only six companies in the czech republic will be affected. but i would like to emphasize that i think that all the means have not been exhausted, especially positive motivation. i don't think it makes sense that it starts with private companies. i'd prefer if state-run organizations were that motivated. i think that this regulation should not come from the centre, from the european union, but that the member states should deal with this situation within their competence. it is in the interests of companies and organisations to have more women on boards and supervisory boards, as has already been said.
mr. chairman, the free market intervention, i have to think about that a little bit, because i think it's god or fate that determines what the specific ratio is between men and women in society. the ratio is 51:49 against men, and that's the natural ratio. i am not against the number 40 000 of women on company boards. the natural order of things, that's what i said. once we deviate by significantly tens of percent, then i think that's really what's unnatural. and i don't know if the free market is the determining factor in that sense. but i really want us to get a good look at our own doorstep. the commission's composition is not even 40% of the quota. show me all the other public sectors where that representation is at least somewhat in line with the natural ratio. i think it's a good idea to sweep your front door first and then go to the private companies.
mr president, i will comment on the part that concerns hungary, of course, although i do agree to some extent that some other member states deserve attention as well. i think that my colleague hohlmeier is right. but if we look at the constitutional reforms that have been carried out in hungary, even though i am a member of the epp here in parliament, i cannot conceal the fact that they are embarrassing. the embarrassment is that hungary was the first country to be monitored by the council of europe. it was the first eu member state. i was a member of the council of europe at the time, so i know what i'm talking about. and it should not be hidden that the constitutional reforms that have been carried out in the last two or three years are, in my opinion, beyond the bounds of acceptability from the point of view of european rules, european values.
mr president, i would also like to see commissioner jourová here, because i think the european commission's proposal to amend the directive on the control of the possession and acquisition of weapons has clearly failed the commission. trying to fight terrorism by restricting lawful gun ownership by law-abiding citizens is patently nonsensical, even in light of the paris tragedy. the commission has not delivered on many of its earlier promises, it is late, and in some places it does not even understand the terminology of gun legislation. the terrorists did not obtain the weapons legally, firstly, they were smuggled from non-eu countries, i.e. from serbia, and in the second case even from eu countries. i would like to stress here that under directive 2008/51/ec the commission was to issue common guidelines on standards and techniques for decommissioning to ensure that decommissioned weapons are indeed irreversibly incapable of firing, and for reasons that are incomprehensible to me, it has not yet done so. i find it unacceptable that the commission should compensate for its past inaction by presenting a draconian proposal which is meaningless.
in writing. i supported the strengthening of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures, which is the result of the long-term work of the european social democrats. the committee will focus on tax evasion across the eu, with a particular focus on tax evasion by large multinational corporations, as part of its new six-month mandate. the members of the committee will have access to new information and will be able to monitor the proper application by the commission of the basic requirements of the european parliament, as defined in the report of the special committee that has been functioning so far.
in writing. ‒ following the decision of the conference of group chairs of the european parliament i approved in plenary the decision to set in place a new special taxe ii committee, as it is in my opinion necessary to pursue the important work of the european parliament on this topic.
in writing. ‒ the setting up of, and appointments to, the taxe ii special committee are important decisions to continue the work of the eu against tax avoidance on our continent. the new committee and the members appointed will be tasked with examining the practices of the member states and whether they are complying with their obligations. it will also assess how the commission has implemented its obligations on state aid control and in its capacity as guardian of the treaties. it will also monitor the implementation, by the member states and the competent european institutions, of the recommendations of the taxe i committee and work at oecd and g20 level.
in writing. the european parliament's agreement to conclude an agreement with liechtenstein on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest income is an important signal in the context of the eu's intensified efforts to increase tax transparency. the agreement will also serve as the legal basis for the implementation of the oecd global standards on the automatic exchange of tax information between the eu and liechtenstein. i see the benefits of the agreement, inter alia, in that it will allow the taxable person concerned to be correctly and unambiguously identified, the tax laws of liechtenstein and the eu member states to be enforced in cross-border situations, if necessary, the likelihood of tax evasion to be assessed and unnecessary lengthy investigations to be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this agreement that is critical to increasing tax cooperation and compliance across borders so that tax evaders cannot hide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the agreement represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. under the agreement, the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017. the objective is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
mr president, i would like to say that i supported this report because i believe that the conclusions it draws are correct. however, i wanted to comment on one specific vote which concerned the special protection of the rights of minors and the rights of the lgbt minority. i mean, i didn't support it, not because i don't want to support minors or lgbt people, but i think that the very idea of claiming that i am an lgbt migrant and therefore don't need to be sent back to my country of origin is very exploitative. that draft resolution contained no loopholes, no restraint mechanisms to ensure that there could not be a clear abuse of the fact that a migrant person declares himself to be an lgbt person and then hopes for the benefit of this provision. i was a little embarrassed about this particular vote, but otherwise i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report concerning an own-initiative inquiry by the european ombudsman into frontex, which in principle proposes the introduction of a mechanism to deal with individual cases of human rights violations alleged to have occurred in the framework of frontex's activities. it is clear that addressing migration issues, and in particular the problems associated with irregular entry, poses significant legal and humanitarian challenges for the eu. almost inevitably, there must be a tension between the legitimate interest of immigration control and the applicant for safe haven, that is, asylum. i agree that we need to put in place a functioning mechanism to deal with individual complaints of human rights violations by frontex staff. however, i consider the proposed concept, which does not sufficiently address the procedure for, for example, declaring a complaint inadmissible or the right of appeal, to be vague and incomplete. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i supported the report on frontex because i agree that frontex should also be subject to human rights review. if any complaints are made about its activities, they should be investigated. refugees should also be entitled to due and lawful treatment and to the possibility of lodging complaints against unlawful interference by agency staff in the performance of their duties. but there should be mechanisms in place to prevent the institution of complaints from being abused, and that is why i have not supported the efforts of some of my colleagues on the left to allow complaints to be made anonymously.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that parliament voted positively on this report. it shows that frontex sees room for improvement and it is taking the initiative to do it. with the current and ongoing migration crisis it is critical that the eu’s external borders should be strong and secure, but this does not mean that human rights go by the wayside. implementing the complaint system is a step forward in this regard. for this to work, i encourage the member states to cooperate with frontex to ensure that the new process runs as smoothly as possible, and to ensure the mechanism’s effectiveness. finally, for a complaint process to work, it must be efficient and transparent, and i trust that the proper agencies will ensure that this is the case.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which was prepared by my colleague from the epp, robert metzl. the report is very balanced. it responds well to the 2013 call of the european ombudsman, which requested that frontex establish a mechanism for individual complaints about human rights violations that might occur in the context of the agency's operations. the european parliament shall also express its views on the matter at the initiative of and in cooperation with frontex. the aim is to guarantee human rights, but at the same time to avoid crippling the agency with unnecessary complaints, especially anonymous ones. frontex is a key body for the protection of the external borders, whose accessibility must not be compromised. on the contrary, it should be strengthened. i also welcome the role of the european ombudsman, whose role is to draw the attention of the european parliament to real problems in the exercise of eu powers. it is a good insurance policy for the protection of fundamental rights, which should not interfere with the work of the responsible authorities. similarly, the ombudsman's office has proved to be a success in the czech republic.
in writing. i was very happy to support the european parliament's report on the special report of the european ombudsman in the framework of an own-initiative inquiry concerning frontex. the report recommends that a complaints mechanism be set up within frontex to allow individuals to make complaints. in the event that the activities of frontex or its staff interfere with the rights of individuals, those individuals should have the means of defence customary in the rule of law. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has committed to take this recommendation into account in the forthcoming revision of the regulation on the agency concerned. i am also pleased that a reasonable compromise has been reached on the issue of the identity of the complainants. in my view, solutions must be found to ensure the protection of fundamental rights while effectively preventing their abuse. i'm glad the text retains the inadmissibility of anonymous complaints. otherwise, there would be a risk of weakening, if not paralysing, the work of frontex. on the other hand, however, i supported the possibility of filing a complaint through third parties acting in good faith on behalf of a complainant who does not wish to be identified. i consider this to be a reasonable step which, in justified cases, will allow the complainant's identity to be protected without risk of abuse.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the special report of the european ombudsman in the framework of an own-initiative inquiry concerning frontex, as the fundamental rights to which the eu subscribes, as set out for example in the charter of fundamental rights, must also be applied in situations where frontex acts. this is not a reduction in the effectiveness of frontex. on the contrary, this situation shows how important it is to reform frontex so that it has the competences to enable it to carry out effectively the tasks we believe it should carry out in the future. the uncertain status of the staff seconded by individual member states only illustrates the current lack of adequate accommodation.
in writing. ‒ a few months ago, the european ombudsman put forward a number of proposals for the frontex common border agency, so that it ensures more respect for the fundamental rights of persons subject to their agent. following these proposals parliament prepared a report that was voted on 2 december 2015 and that i supported (despite a number of provisions where i would have doubts concerning the feasibility or the coherence in a crisis situation) the report promotes common rules on constraint and compels member states to improve their complaints procedures. if the report is not the one i would expect, it brings nevertheless a few interesting elements for reflection that can be used for the future in order to improve respect for fundamental rights.
mr president, i could not support this report for several reasons. this concerns cycling or the promotion of alternative modes of transport in suburban mobility, because in my view it already goes beyond what can be considered a reasonable european regulation that does not contradict the principles of subsidiarity. in my view, it would be far more appropriate to leave these matters to national regulations. not that i am against cycling or alternative modes of transport in the city, on the contrary i consider them very appropriate, but i do not think it is necessary for this issue to be regulated by eu law or by a european parliament resolution, but on the contrary for it to be dealt with by the national states according to their own specific conditions.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on sustainable urban mobility. urban transport is responsible for up to 25% of all co2 emissions and is a sector where greenhouse gas emissions are constantly increasing. it should also be borne in mind that according to the 2013 special eurobarometer 406 survey, only 16% of european citizens use public transport, while 50% of them use a car on a daily basis. the urban environment is thus continually deteriorating, with adverse effects on human health, not to mention the number of road accidents that particularly affect vulnerable road users and the noise that is also associated with traffic. the report supports the construction of cycle paths as well as increased support for rail transport and calls for the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this must go hand in hand with proper coordination of mobility and spatial planning. i voted in favour of the report in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report on urban mobility, among other reasons, because i believe that we need to look for ways to move towards sustainable modes of transport and create the conditions for a greater use of alternative means of transport and less polluting vehicles, taking into account their real carbon footprint. i am also in favour of developing non-motorised transport in cities, creating better conditions for pedestrians and cyclists and initiatives such as the european mobility week. air pollution in cities poses significant health risks to their inhabitants and ultimately reduces the quality of urban life.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased by the result of the vote on sustainable urban mobility. i agree that long-term sustainable urban mobility planning is essential for cities to continue to provide safe and efficient service for their citizens. it is also beneficial in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as noise pollution, air pollution, and accident reduction. i encourage member states to carry out sustainable mobility plans in order to achieve these goals in their respective cities. furthermore, planning should also keep in mind and give priority to low-emission transport models, including electric traction and alternative fuels. we should always strive to provide the best for our citizens. they deserve to have safe, clean and efficient cities where they can learn, work and play.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on sustainable urban mobility because it highlights and promotes sustainable urban mobility at european level. it points out that the development of sustainable urban mobility plans, further supported by information and communication technologies, is important in order to create an efficient and safe transport network, while reducing co2 emissions, noise and making urban transport efficient with the least negative impact on the environment. the measures covered by the report are the increase in car-sharing services, ride-sharing and increased car occupancy. the report also supports the development of smart technologies, including its and info-mobile systems, and the optimisation of urban freight logistics. the report also notes that intelligent transport and intermodal systems make mobility more efficient and environmentally friendly. in the future, new digital technologies in the area of connection tracing and intercommunicating vehicles will also contribute to shortening journeys in cities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which, in the context of an ever-growing urban population, aims at drawing up the framework for a sustainable urban mobility which would reduce pollutant emissions while strengthening mobility in itself. the report welcomes the existing eu tools and objectives (sustainable urban mobility plans, its, white paper, cef, eu projects) and encourages member states and the commission to make better use of them and allocate more funds to their development. modernisation and digitalisation of the transport sector are addressed in a forward-looking perspective, asking for passengers’ behavioural change as regards public transportation to be better taken into account. i opposed the amendment which asked to phase out subsidies on fossil fuels as i believe this issue must be addressed with a much more comprehensives approach than the one of taxation.
in writing. ‒ transport, especially in cities, has a significant impact on the quality of our lives, both positively and negatively. i support this report because we need to look at how people and goods are transported in a way that balances the two. in this respect, i think we need to look beyond the present to the future. furthermore, member states should be encouraged to work with local authorities to target financial support for sustainable projects effectively.
deputy rapporteur for the report. mr president, commissioner, as you know, my esteemed colleague and friend marek gróbarczyk has joined the new polish government as a minister and has asked me to take over his report and help it pass the plenary. marek is thanking the shadow reporters for their constructive cooperation and balanced compromise. the commission also believes that the amendments tabled in plenary will not fundamentally alter the balance. we are of course pleased that the commission is working intensively on the energy union project, so that three weeks ago we were informed in plenary about the progress of implementation. opinions differ on what the details of the energy union should look like, as the past debate has shown. and many of the arguments will certainly be repeated today. i would like to address some of the elements that are important, particularly from the point of view of rapporteur mr gróbarczyk. the energy union is to be based on a robust common energy market. however, market-based instruments should be supported, where necessary, by solidarity mechanisms with member states that are currently heavily dependent on a single energy supplier. and these mechanisms should be strengthened in the context of the revision of legislation, such as the regulation on the security of gas supply. in this context, the report expresses concern about the planned doubling of nord stream's capacity and the possible negative impacts on energy security, diversification of supply and the principle of solidarity between member states. the report also stresses the need to ensure long-term energy supplies through ukraine. the commission must guarantee full compliance with european union competition law and energy legislation, including the third energy package. this also applies to future intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries. if the commission had assessed in advance the compatibility of all proposed agreements with european union law in the past, we could have avoided some controversy. the decarbonisation of the european union economy must be properly managed. it must not lead to higher energy prices, energy poverty, deindustrialisation of the european economy or an increase in unemployment. at the same time, the exclusive right of member states to choose their energy mix must be respected. the key objective should be to reduce co2 emissions, but it is up to the member states to choose the path to achieve this. and to do that, they need as much flexibility as possible. in this context, i would like to stress that we must also respect nuclear energy as a low-carbon energy source that is vital for many countries. the report rightly calls for support for it. i have mentioned the objectives of the european union, and i can see that energy efficiency is a sensitive issue. the report does not call for binding targets for the member states and i believe that this compromise reached in the committee on industry, research and energy will be maintained. i won't go into the details of cop 21 today, because tomorrow afternoon is the full agenda of the conference's conclusions. the question of interconnection of electricity grids is dealt with in detail in mr ericsson's report. i would just like to emphasize the strengthening of national networks so that there is no energy overflow through neighbouring countries. as regards gas, the gróbarczyk report points out the importance of lng infrastructure and natural gas storage tanks in addition to interconnectors. mr gróbarczyk's report is very complex and there is no time to go into it. so i'll save a little time for my colleagues, and thank you again for your cooperation with the shadow intelligence.
mr president, just one remark on the energy union report, mr gróbarczyk’s report. i think it is a balanced report. i also like the emphasis on nord stream 2, a project which i find is being settled in a way that is not compatible with the energy union. as a shadow rapporteur on the eriksson report, i think we have got a good report. i think that this is a report which really fits in with the energy union objective. it is very concrete and it is a key issue in terms of interconnectivity. i think that it is sufficiently ambitious. i think that the regional aspect is also well founded. i believe that we need to reflect of course on the ‘energy islands’ that we have referred to, but also on what the market flows are. i think that the eriksson report combines these two views, these two elements very well indeed. and of course the ambitions are there and will be there for the future. but beyond that, we need to base the 10 % target on concrete impact assessments; and that is also in the report. that is why i would welcome that we vote firmly in favour.
commissioner, first of all, i'd like to thank you for your role during the paris climate conference. i would never have expected such a position from you during your hearing before the committee on industry, research and energy, and i thank you very sincerely for your role. i believe that the energy union, if it is to be an ambitious project, must ensure competitiveness, our energy security and minimise environmental and climate impacts. the whole project has a number of objectives, but i would like to highlight only two, those which i consider to be the core of the whole project and by which the success of the energy union will be measured. the first is that the energy union will be a success if we can get rid of our dependence on fossil fuels in the next three, four or five decades. we need to create a framework that allows not only businesses and producers but also consumers, science and research to make appropriate decisions. but the more immediate problem is to fulfil the essence of solidarity between member states. and if there is a problem, it is the lack of solidarity, or perhaps the absence of solidarity. and a concrete example is the nord stream pipeline expansion, the so-called nord stream 2 project. without concern for the member states and their partners, without consulting them and bypassing them, this is not, in my view, solidarity between member states. nord stream 2 does not diversify our supplies, it only harms the interests of central and eastern europe. it is a disgrace to this european commission if such a project comes to pass.
deputy rapporteur for the report. mr president, we have heard a range of views on the various aspects of the energy union today. but i think we can all agree on one thing: the european union needs energy, and the energy union can help us to take our competitiveness and future security to the next level. a well-functioning energy market should then benefit everyone, consumers and industry. i think that the whole report has been very well characterised by mr petersen, who said that it is a report which has balanced ambition and realistic vision together on such a complex matter as energy within europe. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again on behalf of my friend mr gróbarczyk and to reiterate my hope that we will be able to adopt, vote on a balanced report tomorrow which will bring all these energy interests together and not divide and divide in such a complex area as energy.
for the ppe group. mr president, let me first of all thank all the colleagues from the committee on legal affairs who have contributed to this reform, in particular the rapporteur, cecilia wikström. the eu trade mark is already a very successful project, and yet i would say that we have now managed to agree on changes to the existing legislation which will have a positive impact on all those who use the trade marks. i am also convinced that the agreed reform will not have any substantial negative side effects in the areas that may be affected by the amendment of the trade marks. i believe that the proposed amendment will make the procedure clearer and simpler, reduce fees and overall demonstrate that eu legislation can be changed for the benefit of its users. the change of name of ohim, as well as other changes resulting from the treaty of lisbon, demonstrate that the development of european law also allows for concrete changes that are understandable to the general public. i am therefore convinced that we can support the proposed reform with a clear conscience.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, a trade mark is a sign used to distinguish goods or services on the market. it helps us consumers to navigate more easily through the range of products and services and to choose according to our cherished wishes. union protection systems will operate alongside national protection systems. the systems will not compete, but complement each other, as we have proposed. we also have a better tool to fight against pirated, counterfeit goods. the undeniable advantage of a european trade mark is that, by registering a single trade mark, its proprietors obtain uniform legal protection for their trade mark throughout the european union. in addition to the increased legal certainty resulting from the single legal framework instead of the 28 different national frameworks, this brings about a substantial reduction in the costs of registration, maintenance of the marks in each country and the associated legal services. and it also makes the whole process cheaper for the individual applicant. i appreciate that we have been able to resolve a number of issues. i greatly appreciate the fruitful collaboration with all the shadow reporters, and cecilie, i want to thank you especially for the meds. thank you for your attention, and i wish you a merry christmas trademark.
commissioner, i have just returned from cuba this morning, where i was on a european union human rights observation mission, and i can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, only this. i haven't seen or experienced so much violence against people in public, with dissidents being crushed in the street on human rights day. commissioner, i would like to tell you, and perhaps i would like to remind you, that when we are dealing with dictators, which the cuban regime is undoubtedly, we must not trade the pastry for human rights and we must not trade the economic situation for wanting human rights to be respected. the cuban dissidents have adopted the letter l as a symbol of their resistance. the letter l means freedom, but in english it also means love, and that is what i would like to say to the cuban regime, to think about this word.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the french people on the outcome of the regional elections. my dear french people, i was afraid for you because the populism of the national front is very attractive, but you, the voters, you have mobilized to save the image of france. in time, the pro-european parties finally won. i am particularly pleased with the success of the republicans, who are part of the european people's party family. what i find very important is the success of the right in the regions where unemployment is highest, which corresponds to the evaluation of the economic policy of the socialists. this is the political lesson for all of us: we must do more to address legitimate fears and needs in relation to immigration, security and economic and social problems.
madam president, i too would like to join in congratulating france and let us say not congratulating marie le pen on the way the elections have turned out. however, i would like to repeat what mrs šojdová said, namely the problem of linking cohesion policy with migration. i would like to say that for the first time we are hearing pro-european politicians from germany, austria and the netherlands linking this issue to the fact that if certain countries do not want to participate in the problems of migration, and i will not evaluate this, they will be cut in cohesion contributions, cohesion policy. i consider this linking of cohesion policy with the migration problem or the migration crisis to be a major problem in europe. i do not think we should be conditional beneficiaries of cohesion policy, of cohesion funds, but of course we must also show solidarity and i understand that, for example, cohesion policy could also be used precisely to integrate migrants. so i want to warn you about this.
madam president, let me start with the fact that the economic crisis highlighted a lot of gaps and problems in the architecture of monetary union, and we have been able to improve. we now have far better rules, better instruments and a better monetary union, and we should be proud of that. but what should we do now? obviously, we have a very good agenda before us and i am supporting that, but at the same time we should not forget that most of the work needs to be done by the member states. the member states should continue with structural reforms to improve their competitiveness, because that is the only way to deal with the issue of unemployment, which is very critical in most of the member states. at the same time, they should continue with responsible fiscal policy. there is no alternative to responsible fiscal policy, and these two goals do not exclude each other but, rather, are supportive. this is the only way to restore confidence – and i am talking about confidence among the member states and the self-confidence of the eurozone. this is what we badly need in order to move forward. member states ought to understand that, for the sake of a better future, they should be able to coordinate economic policies better and give up some economic sovereignty to make the eurozone more stable. i believe that the european parliament can assist in this development and play an important role.
in writing. while europe has bounced back from the economic bottom it was at just a few months ago, it is clear that the best solution has not been found. at present, our continent is facing considerable social divergence and a very low rate of economic recovery. the situation is not helped by the lagging domestic demand which needs to be stimulated. european citizens deserve their representatives to take action to reduce poverty and social inclusion. they also deserve to be stimulated by investments, including human capital and social investment. we must be able to exploit fully the potential that the juncker plan offers to the european economy. a plan that is currently experiencing a rocky start. the european commission and the european investment bank, which are responsible for the european fund for strategic investments, should reflect this and therefore seek to communicate as much as possible about the fund's capabilities. it is also important to stress that monetary policy is not a one-size-fits-all solution that europe can use to address all its economic ills. there must also be fiscal policy and counter-cyclical capacity. we must also remember that the completion of economic and monetary union is not just a matter for the euro area. since all member states have committed themselves to adopt the euro, with some exceptions, by the accession treaty, the debate on reform needs to be shared with all the members of the union.
in writing. i support the parliament's recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the participation of the swiss confederation in the european asylum support office, as strengthening international cooperation between all european countries in times of an unprecedented refugee crisis is an indispensable part of the solution to the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i consider the full involvement of switzerland in the work of the european asylum support office to be very beneficial, especially in the light of the current situation. moreover, the involvement of switzerland is certainly a logical step in the context of switzerland's association with the so-called dublin system. i welcome the fact that switzerland will be able to contribute its expertise and the many years of experience it has in the field. switzerland, as a signatory to the agreement, will participate fully in the activities of the office from its entry into force, will be represented in the management structures of the office and will make an annual contribution to the budget of the office (a contribution calculated on the basis of the country's gdp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by which parliament gives its consent to the council to conclude the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easo). the regulation establishing easo opened its membership also for iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland as observers. according to the arrangement, switzerland will fully participate in the activities of easo, which i support, taking into account also its involvement in the dublin system. such enhanced cooperation can facilitate among other things the exchange of best practices, information gathering and early warning system.
in writing. ‒ i support this recommendation as it aims to involve switzerland more in the mechanisms to deal with the migration crisis. in my view, it is reasonable that switzerland, which benefits from the existence of the european union and the free trade area, should also contribute to the solution of the crisis. since switzerland has itself agreed to participate, there are no longer any major obstacles to its participation and i trust that the council will expedite its action as much as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the eu and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the commonwealth of dominica, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. i supported today's motion to approve the conclusion of agreements between the eu and several caribbean and pacific states on the short-stay visa waiver. it should be noted that the member states have already expressed their consent to the introduction of a visa-free regime for their nationals when they approved the mandate of the european commission to negotiate these visa-free agreements. the safety aspect has thus already been considered by the responsible authorities of the member states in particular. the list of countries whose citizens can travel to the eu without a visa is contained in the annex to regulation no 539/2001, and until now, the visa-free regime has generally been introduced by amending that annex. given that some member states may already have bilateral visa-free travel agreements from an earlier period and that these agreements may then make it more difficult to implement the basic rule allowing only 90 days in every 180 days to stay in the schengen area, it was decided to conclude, as part of the introduction of visa-free travel with third countries, union visa-free travel agreements which will clearly replace national visa-free travel agreements and reflect the 90 in 180 rule.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the republic of vanuatu, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the independent state of samoa, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of grenada when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and grenada, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the democratic republic of timor-leste, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of saint lucia when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and saint lucia, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines, which is significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. it is also another way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, which was signed in may 2015. it allows visa-free travel for eu citizens and for the citizens of the united arab emirates when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i welcome that the agreement strengthens relations between the eu and the united arab emirates and provides another way to intensify mutual cooperation and political dialogue on various issues, including human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust, as i believe that enhanced cooperation between these authorities, particularly in the area of enforcement of intellectual property rights, is necessary and can increase the effectiveness of not only these two institutions in this area. sharing information and experience across different institutions with interlinked agendas is certainly a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market. its aim has been to strengthen eurojust’s capacity to work with the office for harmonisation and foster their strategic cooperation, particularly on exchange of information. the arrangement is in line with eu legislation according to which eurojust may conclude agreements or working arrangements with the institutions, bodies and agencies set up by, or on the basis of, the treaties.
in writing. i supported the report on the methods and procedures for the allocation of own resources to the budget of the european union, because i am convinced of the need to introduce effective rules for the way in which member states pay their contributions to the common budget. only proper contribution can ensure the effective implementation of union policies that benefit half a billion citizens. i also supported the increase in late payment fees. i am convinced that changing the methods used to adjust the contributions of countries will avoid a repeat of the situation in 2014, when the method was recalculated, which meant that some countries increased their contributions by leaps and bounds. the whole process was accompanied by irrational anti-european comments which seriously and unfairly damaged the union in the eyes of the citizens. i also firmly believe that the european commission will look at how individual member states account for or report on contributions to the european budget and will seek to achieve harmonisation and increased transparency in this respect. it is time to reform the system of own resources of the european union budget. the current one is too complex and inflexible. it is not possible for member states, whose contribution is based on their gross domestic income and which account for the largest part of the resources of the european budget, to block the proper implementation of programmes which clearly have european added value by their negative attitude.
in writing. ‒ i supported amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedure for making available the traditional, vat and gni-based own resources and on the measures to meet cash requirements. according to it, the commission should be able to ask member states for the payment of 3/12th of vat and gni resources in the first half of the year, so that it can reduce a more important part of the previous year’s payment backlog in the european agriculture guarantee fund (eagf) and in the european structural and investment funds (esif), and to reduce default interest. among other things, the amendment aims at increasing the incentives for the member states to pay on time by making more expensive any late payment. it however respects proportionality, by capping the maximum increase of the interest rate at 20 percentage points.
‒ the charges against the member date from before the beginning of his mandate and it is therefore for the greek courts to decide whether he is guilty or not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr georgios kyrtsos, a greek mep who is a member of the group of the european people’s party. the waiver was requested by the prosecutor’s office at the supreme court of greece, in connection with possible legal action concerning an alleged offence. the accusation relates to the time when mr kyrtsos worked as a manager of two newspaper publishing firms and he allegedly failed to pay part of the 2013 salary to his former employee.
the charges against the member date from before the beginning of his mandate and it is therefore for the greek courts to decide whether he is guilty or not.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to waive the immunity of mr stelios kouloglou, a greek member of the gue-ngl group. the reason is that he is accused of libel and defamation of prison staff in the city of patras in greece. the accusation relates to statements which stelios kouloglou is claimed to have made to the press in 2010 about the probity of certain members of the prison staff in patras, at a time when he was a journalist chiefly producing television reporting.
in writing. ‒ you cannot solve the problems of one company by taking money from more successful competitors and employees and redistributing it elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ finland submitted its application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in june 2015 in order to deal with redundancies in its information technology sector. finland argues that employment in its ict sector shrunk as a result of businesses and services relocating to china, india, taiwan and other non-european countries. while in 2008 the technology industry employed a total of 326 000 people in finland, the number of people employed by such companies in 2014 was 276 000. in 2014 alone, the number of staff in finnish ict companies was reduced by 3 % or 1 500 people. i supported the mobilisation of the fund, which will provide finland with eur 2 623 200. the contribution will be used to improve opportunities for the jobseekers to find new employment.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at second reading, which brings the legislative process to a close after two and a half years. the result is a compromise that simplifies the administrative process for processing trade mark applications and reduces the cost of obtaining a trade mark. the agreement will encourage firms to become more competitive in the eu internal market and thus promote cross-border trade within the eu. lastly, the agreement creates the conditions to facilitate the fight against counterfeiting in the eu and to reduce the volume of counterfeit goods moving through the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark, and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs). the purpose of these changes is to foster innovation and economic growth by making the eu trade mark registration systems more accessible, especially for small and middle size enterprises. the systems' efficiency should be enhanced among other measures by streamlining procedures to apply for and register a european trade mark, by increasing legal certainty and by promoting convergence of practices and developing common tools across the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i have long been a supporter of measures to promote innovation and economic growth, and this proposed regulation is one of them. i am in favour of simplifying trademark registration procedures and thus increasing legal certainty. i also welcome the amendments to the proposal concerning the management of the office for harmonization and budgetary matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported adoption of this report as it foresees the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council to bring closer the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. i believe that increasing transparency and clarity of the procedures is crucial for supporting innovation and the development of european smes.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the effective functioning of pan-european corporations, which are one of the key elements of the european economy, requires the harmonisation of trade mark rules. the proposed directive, together with the community trade mark regulation, contributes to this and that is why i voted in favour of it.
‒ the european union should not interfere with national fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council laying down a scheme of control and enforcement applicable in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. the convention, to which the eu is a party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area. its commission (neafc) adopted the scheme of control and enforcement, which the regulation transposes into eu law. the purpose of the amendment is to implement several recent recommendations by the neafc amending the scheme. the main change, under neafc recommendation 9/2014, is the alignment of the scheme with the un food and agriculture organisation’s port state measures agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for short stays for citizens of selected acp partner countries and the united arab emirates in the european union. this measure, which concerns exclusively safe countries with an excellent level of cooperation with european countries, will increase the interest of non-european tourists in visiting eu countries. the reciprocal abolition of the visa requirement for short stays will also make it much easier for union citizens to travel to those countries.
in writing. ‒ in the case of this report, the vote was postponed. parliament adopted several amendments to it and referred it back to the responsible committee on international trade. the amendments focus on the adaptation of bosnia and herzegovina’s interim agreement with the eu and its progress towards accession. the original commission proposal concerns regulation (ec) no 1215/2009, which relates to trade preferences between the eu and the western balkan countries, including autonomous trade measures (atms) granted to it by the eu since 2000. the commission proposed several changes to it, one of them being the possible suspension of atms for bosnia and herzegovina from 1 january 2016. following the accession of croatia to the eu, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet adapted its interim agreement with the eu in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. referring to damage of eu’s commercial interests, the commission proposed that a prolongation of atms to bosnia and herzegovina would not be automatic, but should depend on bosnia and herzegovina accepting the eu methodology regarding the adaptation of the interim agreement.
mr president, i also supported parliament's opinion because it was parliament's position on the council's proposal. this is an international agreement and the council shall give its consent to its approval. however, i thought it important to highlight a few points when approving this agreement. indeed, the united arab emirates is a sort of financial crime mecca in the region, and it is very essential to prevent this very crime, to investigate it effectively, to cooperate with this state. i am pleased that this strategic agreement will be concluded and therefore approved. at the same time, i would like to point out that the agreement does not concern the transfer of personal data, because it is indeed a very sensitive matter, and i am glad that the council and european diplomacy have been very cautious in this matter. so, from my point of view, there was nothing to prevent me from supporting this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ international police cooperation is to be agreed between member states, as interpol is.
in writing. i am convinced that the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates is a very important step towards further strengthening international coordination in the fight against financial and other crime. the concerns about the protection of personal data are not relevant in this case, as the agreement excludes the exchange of such data. the information shared will include, for example, expertise, investigative procedures, advice on specific cases of investigation, strategic analysis or general situation reports. i am convinced that cooperation with the united arab emirates in the fight against organised crime will become increasingly important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, and voted in favour of the cooperation. such agreements between europol and third countries have the objective of supporting and strengthening action by the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information.
in writing. ‒ i support cooperation with the united arab emirates as it would help to combat financial fraud, as this country is becoming a major hub for economic and financial crime. proceeds from criminal activities such as vat fraud and money laundering have been reinvested in the uae and key perpetrators involved in these frauds have taken refuge in the uae. such conduct must be firmly opposed.
mr president, it was important to me that this report was not militant, that it did not try to ban something which can actually bring about positive results in some areas. i don't want to question the environmental significance of scrapping, but there are areas where it can happen with relatively little impact on health and the environment. but as far as energy security is concerned, that is one of the european union's permanent tasks, and it is essential to me that the other european union procedures follow or fulfil the five pillars on which energy security must stand. it must be about secure energy supplies, and i insist that decarbonisation, a competitive economy and affordable energy sources must be an essential part of this. under these conditions, i will of course continue to support the creation of this energy union and energy security in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the energy market should be a full-fledged component of the eu internal market, fully functioning, competitive and secure. current fragmentation of national energy markets creates obstacles for more competitiveness and raises concerns over energy security in europe. for that reason i voted in favour of this report. on the other hand, i cannot agree with raising the energy efficiency targets high above the level agreed on the member states level which is, in my opinion, a well-balanced and realistic compromise.
in writing. the energy union project does not respect the individual energy needs of individual countries and, under the guise of solidarity, seeks to put some at a disadvantage.
‒ i supported the report because i believe that concrete steps must be taken to create an energy union, but that steps must not be taken that undermine this effort. for this reason, i have expressed my opposition to the proposed doubling of the nordstream pipeline capacity and, on the contrary, i am convinced of the need to find solutions that do not have a negative impact on energy security and diversification of supply. i would welcome the creation of a mechanism to strengthen the commission's role in negotiations concerning energy supply involving one or more member states and third countries, including the ex ante assessment of commercial contracts for gas supply. only a common approach to the negotiation of gas supply contracts can lead to a supply system that is profitable and sustainable for the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am very pleased that an important report on the energy union has been passed in the european parliament. european countries must move away from fossil fuel-based energy and move more progressively towards an efficient energy mix with respect for the environment and sustainable development. this, together with the requirement to integrate energy markets, increase security of supply and reduce consumption, forms the basis of the energy union, which should lead in the first instance to a reduction of energy import dependency. the energy union will not only help us to transform our economy into a greener, lower carbon economy, but will also have a positive impact on industry, transport, lower energy prices for households and consumer protection. it will also lead to the creation of new jobs.
in writing. i supported the report entitled 'towards a european energy union' because it addresses a number of specific aspects that are important for the implementation of the energy community reform towards the internal energy market and the so-called european energy union. in addition to the key themes of energy security, efficiency, support for research and innovation or investment in infrastructure, the report also highlights the social aspects of the energy market, including the consideration of end-users or the need to address energy poverty and the empowerment of vulnerable consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards an european energy union’. the energy union is one of the most important projects which would, in the long run, ensure energy security and independence of the eu. the report calls for higher energy efficiency, increased use of renewables, diversification of supply, more active use of european energy resources, proper energy connectors between member states, renovation of infrastructure networks and buildings. of particular importance is to undertake further actions to build a fully integrated, synchronised and well-functioning internal energy market based on a market approach as well as solidarity and coordination mechanisms. i voted in favour of all compromises approved by the itre committee and i also voted in favour of those compromises concerning recognition of nuclear energy as one of the important contributors to the low-carbon european energy mix. i however did not support amendments calling for binding energy efficiency targets. i also voted against amendment 59 on shale gas.
in writing. my former colleague marek gróbarczyk did a very good job on the energy union report and managed to negotiate a balanced text on the ecr. i personally consider the energy union to be an important project and the report adopted contains a number of important points. unfortunately, amendments were also tabled which upset the original balance, and i am thinking in particular of the binding energy efficiency targets for the member states. that is why i could not support the report as a whole in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ these issues should not be decided by the eu, but by individual power companies or member states, as far as they are connected to their neighbours.
in writing. i supported this report on my own initiative because interconnection of electricity networks is not only one of the essential conditions for completing the eu's integrated internal market for electricity, but will also contribute to meeting climate objectives and, last but not least, to enhancing energy security and stability in the event of disruptions to energy supplies. given the commission's estimate of eur 35 billion needed to reach the 10% target in all member states by 2020, the maximum use of eu financial instruments, in particular the connecting europe facility, part of which should be allocated to electricity projects, should be made. the funding should focus on projects that increase connectivity in the 12 member states in peripheral areas of the eu that are still below the 10% electricity interconnection target.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable mix of energy sources will lead to energy savings and the establishment of an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy, thus ensuring a stable, secure and, above all, competitive eu energy system. in my view, 10% interconnection of electricity grids will ensure greater competitiveness of european industry and trade in the global economy and, in particular, the internal market in electricity will benefit all eu consumers. of course, i recognise that the 10% connectivity target is an important step in the right direction, but by 2030 more ambitious complementary connectivity targets need to be agreed on the basis of trade flows, peak times and bottlenecks, to be agreed by the regions. and i would be happy if these projects were eligible for specific funding under the connecting europe facility and the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ as a shadow rapporteur for the report ‘achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target’ i am deeply convinced that well-designed and functioning electricity interconnection is one of the key preconditions for completing an integrated internal electricity market in the eu. i consider the 10% interconnection target as a valuable step in this respect. therefore i supported all compromises approved by the itre committee and i voted in favour of the report. i would like to emphasize few points of this report which are of high importance to me. although the 10% interconnection target is important, it describes neither the quantity of electricity flowing between countries nor the quality, such as regards the availability of the existing interconnection infrastructure or of the existing national infrastructure. the report is therefore calling for thorough impact assessment and targets which will be evidence-based and also complementary regional targets in 2030 horizon. we should be able to identify the real needs of the market and needs of the eu member states, thorough ia and evaluation of the current infrastructure. last but not least, the approach towards the interconnections and the national grids has to be balanced.
‒ i do not agree with subsidies of this type or with favouring certain groups at the expense of others.
in writing. from the social democrat's point of view, this is a very important instrument of microfinance, which allows reintegration into the labour market, unleashing entrepreneurial potential, acquiring new skills through accompanying vocational training and counselling, and enabling people to take their lives into their own hands and ensure a dignified existence. it is important to note that the progress microfinance facility is first and foremost a social policy instrument and only secondarily an economic instrument. it targets target groups that have been neglected in our economic system: the (long-term) unemployed, social welfare recipients, immigrants, ethnic minorities, people in the informal economy or living in disadvantaged regions, and women. in my view, the provision of micro-credit makes economic and social sense, because financial support for a person seeking to become self-employed is more advantageous for state institutions than social benefits for the unemployed, and moreover it serves as a springboard for citizens to start a business. moreover, the figures demonstrate the functionality of the instrument, which is why i would be happy to see the efsi made available to micro-enterprises.
in writing. i very much welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague from the epp and the empl committee, mr sven schulze, on the progress microfinance facility. microcredit has proven to be very effective in both developing and developed countries. it was rightly awarded the nobel peace prize by its founder, muhammad yunus. i would particularly like to stress the social nature of microcredit, since small businesses are a way out of social exclusion. but here the european programme shows certain weaknesses. its effectiveness is less clear in relation to disadvantaged groups and the social economy. refugees are certainly a disadvantaged group, but i could not support their inclusion in the target groups of the programme. these people are not yet in a position to apply for microcredit. i consider such a request an empty gesture. unfortunately, progress is currently only available in 22 member states, which should change. i am glad that my country, the czech republic, is one of them. although some of our amendments failed to pass and the report retained the aforementioned reference to refugees as the target group of the programme, i decided to support the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which stresses the importance of the progress microfinance facility. inspired by the success of microloans in developing countries, the eu created it in 2010 with total funding of eur 205 million and it currently operates in 22 out of the 28 member states. it is primarily a social policy instrument for a target group to which loans are considered risky and costly by banks. the report calls on the commission and the member states to raise awareness of the microfinance facility among potential beneficiaries, to encourage more research into microenterprises, their needs and their survival rates and to better measure the social impact of the facility.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european commission has put forward a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy. the use and exploitation of our seas is in many ways a major problem that needs to be addressed urgently. current intensive fishing is causing the disappearance of entire species and the consequent instability of the marine and ocean biological environment, which is also affected by, among other things, climate fluctuations and changes. the 2013 cfp reform has made considerable progress, but there is still a need to improve and, above all, simplify measures in order to achieve maximum sustainable yield through an ecological approach. the new reform, which includes regulation of fishing effort, multiannual plans, regional cooperation and other technical measures, should ensure this combination. these measures should be adapted to each fishing area and region to the extent that they remain compatible with the cfp and thus the exclusive competence of the eu in the area of shared resources. the measures must be simple and clear, so that they are easily understood by fishermen and do not give rise to divergent interpretations. i think that the introduction of specific control standards to limit the exploitation of the seas is a necessary step that we must take now to avoid catastrophic consequences in the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this own-initiative report regarding the common fisheries policy (cfp). to achieve the objectives resulting from its 2013 reform, technical measures and multiannual plans were identified as the two key instruments. however, little progress has been made and this report calls for improvements. it proposes that the multiannual plans should be adopted as soon as possible, involving stakeholders in their development. regarding the technical measures, it brings simplification and regionalisation. it calls for future technical measures to be clear so that they can be easily understood by fishermen and to include them in the decision-making process on the details of the technical measures.
the question asked by the blue card raiser to michael marusik. mr. marusik, isn't there a big contradiction in what you said today? on the one hand you want to protect europe's borders, and on the other hand you are criticizing the european union for this proposal, which is actually going in the right direction towards protecting europe's borders in a meaningful and clear way.
dear mr. avramopoulos, dear mr. timmermans, who may be hearing me or hearing me on the recording, i am always your great critic. but the criticism has two sides, because a) it's forceful, and b) it's objective. mr. avramopoulos, i've always criticized you for being rather slow to react. you, the greek, have had a lot of time on a lot of things, but today i have to commend you, because this step that you've taken, and this proposal that you've put forward, is a step in the right direction. esteban gonzález pons here at the beginning said that if someone wants to come to us, they have to use the door. and we all have doors in our homes. and i want to make it clear to everyone that we have a dog next to the door, and if someone doesn't use the door, but uses the window, we'll use our dog. and that is your proposal, and on that proposal i congratulate you and thank you for it.
commissioner, i thank you very much for introducing the protection of the common external border. it's what we've been calling for for months, i have to say finally! my questions are directed to specific measures, following on from my colleague mrs gabriel, and i ask: what will be the relationship between this guard and frontex? do you think the 1,500 border guards will be enough to ensure that in addition to border protection, they also have the return policy that you mentioned? so the adequacy of these capacities is a question. and then the question that has been raised here several times: who will have the right to decide whether the member state wants to accept this aid? i am therefore saying clearly that each country which forms the external borders of the european union must be aware of its responsibility and in this case i agree to the possibility of abstaining.
commissioner, i already assessed your role in the negotiations positively yesterday. the paris agreement is certainly a partial victory for all those who wanted to prevent the catastrophe that global warming would surely cause. we must always remember that this agreement never had to happen. i very much welcome the commitment of the countries involved to do their utmost to limit the temperature rise to 1.5°c, which would certainly be a catastrophe for many millions of people living in some parts of the world. i don't think so, but we can be quite satisfied with the results. it is clear that the commitments of some countries are not in line with the objectives and that unless we can get some of the big polluters to change their attitude, the average temperature will rise by up to 3°c. the agreement, in my view, does not meet the core principle of fairness, and it is very important that we prove that the global climate fund will be able to be filled with the 100 billion after 2020 that we have committed to.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me start by saying that it was a great pleasure to work with anneliese dodds and with all the other shadow rapporteurs on this fascinating economic and political subject, and on an area in which we can really make things better. anneliese dodds talked about the revenues lost by governments. we do not know exactly what they amount to: the estimates start at tens of billions of euros a year, but there may be hundreds of billions. in any case, it is a lot of money. an even more important issue is the fact that a market in which some companies pay taxes and some do not pay is not a fair market. we must address this issue. it is not a static issue: if we do not act, the situation will just get worse, and those who pay taxes, including employees and small businesses, will have to pay more because of the others who do not pay. this is an issue that has undermined the credibility of states and governments. so we must act. we must act decisively but we must act smartly: not everything that can be done should be done. luckily, there is enough expertise, on which we were able to build our report. i would mention the expertise of the commission and the oecd, academics, civil society and businesses. consequently, we have tried to put together the report with well defined, clear recommendations that are feasible and well justified. let me look at it from a different perspective. the first area i want to mention concerns implementation of the recommendations that were the outcome of the oecd/g20 base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project. the g20 and the commission asked the oecd to tackle this issue at global level. the results are well thought-out economic measures which have been endorsed by the governments of many countries. including the g20 and developing countries. there is no excuse for us not to implement these measures briskly. the measures concern, for example, country-by-country reporting, patent boxes, hybrid mismatches and permanent establishment. the second issue i want to highlight is the re-launch of the common consolidated corporate tax base project (ccctb). the ccctb project has benefits both for governments, as it will generate more secure revenue collection, and, importantly, for businesses because it will substantially reduce and simplify tax compliance. there is no alternative to ccctb if we want to tackle the issue. there is no other measure that would be as effective and as efficient at the end of the day. lastly, let me mention some proposals that are eu specific. we want a code of conduct group to function better. we want, effectively and jointly, to act against tax havens. there is the corporate social responsibility initiative that anneliese dodds mentioned and, last but not least, we want to work with regular estimates of the tax gap arising in the area of corporate taxation. i am very pleased that we are on the same wavelength as the commission because we have in mind the same proposals, and i believe we will be able to convince the governments to go forward. let me now conclude, first by thanking anneliese dodds for her wonderful cooperation, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their input. i look forward to the debate here and, more importantly, i believe we will gain support for the report tomorrow. i hope this is not the end. it is a start, and at the end of the day – though rather sooner than later – we will achieve the improvement that we want.
mr president, i would also like to highlight the quality of the report presented and thank the rapporteurs. i realize that this is a highly technical but also political question. i think it is obvious that certain aspects of taxation should be harmonised, they should be uniform. i don't think that's even the basic point of contention. however, i'm not sure that a common tax base should be the way forward for europe. i am aware that it is not possible to construct a european agreement in the absence of a global agreement, but what they have created in luxembourg and beyond, i think is really unfair tax competition. it is a practice that distorts the market, that is based on free will, and i think it is a blow to the other member states and to the citizens who believe in a common europe. i therefore support what has been said and i think it provides a good basis for further consideration.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me thank all colleagues for their kind words. after working for many months with anneliese i am not surprised that she made the same comment i would make concerning the remarks of some of my colleagues. as a former economist, i am sure that the current situation is not sustainable and i believe that no country is currently benefiting from the current situation or will benefit from it in the future. so we need a change. the questions are quite simple. do we want to allow some firms to benefit from very low effective taxation and ask others to pay in their place? do we want to allow some countries to redirect, intentionally or unintentionally, tax revenues from the budget of other countries to their budget? do we want to allow or encourage some firms to benefit from very low taxation, thus creating a tax advantage and unfair conditions on the market? i guess the answer is and should be ‘no’. i believe that we should allow countries to compete on taxation, but on fair and transparent grounds. we should aim for lower taxes, but lower taxes for everyone, not only for some. i hope that parliament will support the report tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to stress that this report is very important because china is an important partner for the european union and we need to define our relationship with china. china is developing a more constructive stance on global issues, including the environment and climate change. i think china has a right to be a world power. but the report also notes that under the leadership of current president xi jinping, the chinese government is showing a more assertive attitude both domestically and abroad. it recognises more the importance of the universal nature of human rights, but the results are not yet what we would like, particularly in relation to religious minorities, whether christian or not, and to the situation in tibet, where there is also environmental damage and cultural and political oppression.
in writing. china is an important trading partner of the european union and it is beneficial to promote trade relations, but i urge that the human rights situation be discussed. i also express my support and solidarity with the people fighting for democratic reforms, especially in hong kong. we must also not forget the situation in tibet, where human rights are being suppressed. in my view, china should also be encouraged to change its economic model to a sustainable economy with a focus on environmental protection.
madam president, we are celebrating this year the 800th anniversary of, shall we say, the first humanistic outburst. the great bill of rights was created in england 800 years ago. in my opinion, this anniversary should have been the occasion for the transmission of the information that my predecessor spoke about. i was surprised by how many national governments were unaware that the office of the high commissioner for human rights and refugees had to, basically, cut very radically, week by week, the food aid in the refugee camps. in the global age, we don't have information transfer, we don't have intelligence. these are questions about how national governments and states actually function on such an important issue as the protection of humanity and those basic values of humanity. then one can only wonder how the people who do not receive the food aid will react.
commissioner, i want to thank you for putting employment first. i would like to inform you that the committee on employment and social affairs is preparing a report on social dumping in the european union. you mentioned the mobility package that the european commission is preparing. there should certainly be measures to prevent mobility, such as language skills, non-recognition of mutual qualifications, etc. it should be said at this stage that it should not include a new directive, but that its implementation should be assessed first. i would like to ask if you have already had the opportunity to read the letter from the confederation of european business, which does not recommend reopening the directive, which has already been mentioned several times here. thank you in advance for your answer.
madam president, madam commissioner, the more than 80 million european citizens with disabilities need and deserve equal access not just to the job market but also to the digital single market for buying goods and services. i warmly welcome a european accessibility act but, after waiting for this long-overdue proposal, we must now make sure that the act as finally adopted yields practical results. it must turn words, condemning discrimination, into action that helps these individuals in their daily lives. as rapporteur for the web accessibility directive, however, i would also be grateful if you could further explain, commissioner, how you see the relationship between the two pieces of legislation. i took good note of the references in the recital and the explanatory statement but i believe that we will need further clarification before we enter a trilogue on this directive in the new year. what i can assure you is that parliament will not give up on its support for widening the scope of the web accessibility directive without written guarantees as to the other, non-public, websites to be covered by the european accessibility act. persons with disabilities need full access to the digital single market and the internet – not just to public websites.
commissioner, i would like to take the floor to support what you said at the end of your speech. and that's access to quality education for people with disabilities. it is the main condition for the services we are talking about today, such as internet services, digital services, to be able to be used to their full potential. i think we can all agree on the need to promote accessibility as it's being talked about here today, as you can see. the problem arises when these services are to be financed. we know this from the approval of national budgets in our member countries. i think the argument here is that quality education and access to services for disabled citizens is our responsibility. and it's also an investment in their full lives.
commissioner, we must certainly welcome the presentation of the european accessibility act, although our enthusiasm is somewhat tempered by the experience of how difficult it is to negotiate in the council a much more modest directive on the accessibility of public sector websites. it is therefore of the utmost importance to translate this directive into practice. we must not allow the good ideas and high expectations that it rightly arouses among people with disabilities to be equally frustrating. i trust that will not be the case. eighty million europeans with disabilities have to face a number of obstacles in their daily lives, not just their disability. better access to goods and services is essential to improve the quality of life not only of people with disabilities, but also of older citizens, for example. this is the main reason to support the european accessibility act and to strongly encourage member states to do so.
madam president, a couple of months ago while referring to the european council conclusions on the enhancement of the mandate for frontex, i was very critical. i expected much more, and i need to applaud president juncker today for having delivered something that is much more significant. this is an answer to the concerns of citizens, who say ‘we want schengen’ and ‘we want security inside schengen’. this is a proper proposal. we now expect the council to deliver this week and approve it. of course, this is one leg. i would like to see in the future the second leg, because talking about capacities, whether 1 000 plus 1 500 is sufficient or not, we will have to see. i am sure that we will need integrated military forces in the future. this is another element and something we should work on in the future. a final remark on the sharing of information. the terrorist who was stopped at the belgian border was covered by one database in connection with property crime, but he was also in the europol database for connections to terrorist organisations. we failed. we need to connect these. this is the task for the immediate future.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission and mr juncker for their deep commitment to preserving the schengen system. this is very important not only for the future of some of us, but for the future of europe. i also share his view that, in the current difficult situation, we must act together. each of us should assume part of the responsibility for dealing with this crisis. only together can we make it. if we make it, this will make us stronger. each crisis that we overcome, each programme we solve will make europe stronger. we badly need it to be able to deal with challenges in the future. i very much welcome the proposal of the commission to improve the protection of our borders. this is exactly what people are legitimately asking for: to make sure that europe protects its borders. we cannot give people the excuse that decision-making is complicated and that there are constraints in domestic policy; we must just act. i am very grateful that the commission has finally done so. at the same time i was surprised to learn how weak our information system is on the borders of the schengen area. we must improve it. we must have the available information and we must know who is in, and who is out. we must solve it smartly as soon as possible. as our chair, mr weber, mentioned, we have a plan. we have a plan that is feasible and good. we must just fulfil it; there is no excuse for not doing so. we will support the commission, and i hope we will succeed and get the situation on the migration crisis under control.
mr president, i wanted to thank president juncker and now his vice-president for presenting the european commission's plan for the protection of the external borders. president juncker said that freedom and security must go together, they must complement each other, they cannot exist without each other. i'd like to say i think the same thing too. solidarity cannot be without a focus on security, especially in this time of migration crisis. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken up its responsibility and put forward a solution for a common security force for the external border. i would also encourage him to accept that if the member states do not have sufficient means to protect the external borders of the schengen area, they must accept european joint assistance and joint solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of prolonging the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority (eba). mr andrea enria was appointed to this position in 2011, and in september 2015 the board of supervisors of the eba proposed to extend his term of office by another five-year term. before taking up the chairmanship of eba, mr enria was the head of the regulation and supervisory policy department at the bank of italy. he had previously served as secretary general of the committee of european banking supervisors, the predecessor of eba, and worked in the european central bank.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). mr gabriel bernardino was appointed as the first chairperson of the eiopa in 2011 and in september 2015, the board of supervisors of the eiopa proposed to prolong his term by another five years. prior to his current role, mr bernardino was the director general of the directorate for development and institutional relations at the instituto de seguros de portugal (isp). he holds a masters degree in statistics and optimisation, universidade nova de lisboa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of another five-year term in office for the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma), following a proposal by its board of supervisors of september 2015. mr steven maijoor was appointed the first chairperson of the esma in 2011. before joining esma, steven maijoor was managing director at the afm, the dutch financial markets regulator and prior to that he was the dean of the school of business and economics at maastricht university, having pursued a long career in academia.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's recommendation to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement on serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and the european police office (europol), as i consider that strengthening police cooperation with partners in the middle east is highly desirable in the current security situation. i understand the argument that an amendment to the eu regulation (2013/0091 ((cod)) will soon be adopted, which will allow direct control by the european parliament over the assessment of europol's cooperation agreements with third country authorities. however, this legislative act will not enter into force until 2017. in view of the current situation in europe, i have therefore decided to conclude this treaty without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between bosnia and herzegovina and europol and voted in favour of the cooperation. such agreements between europol and third countries have the objective of supporting and strengthening action by the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of ireland. the contribution will support the reintegration in the labour market of workers that were made redundant in pwa international ltd, which was based in county dublin and specialised in the overhaul and repair of large commercial jet engine cases. following the company’s decision to consolidate its operations in north america and asia in order to locate its activity near the centres of global aviation expansion, the pwai in dublin closed down in march 2015 and dismissed 108 workers. the egf contribution of eur 442 293 will cover personalised services including measures such as guidance and career development, training grants, further education and time limited allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation on adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern pursuant to regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 (‘the ias regulation’).
madam president, i think that this is a very technical question and that it was an objection under rule 106. the fact is that on march 20 of this year, the international agency in charge of cancer research labeled just one part of the substance as harmful to health, even causing cancer. on the other hand, there are other studies, and in my opinion, such rigorous scientific material should not be subjected to purely political scrutiny. i expected the motion for a resolution to be more accommodating on this point. i could not support it for that reason, although i do not support genetically modified food, but that does not apply to the question of basic research either, as my colleague mr jahr has said here. that is why i did not support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of objecting to the authorisation of products containing genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 for several reasons. the commission has in no way exceeded the scope of the delegated regulation by authorising those products and its decision is based on scientific advice, namely that of the european food safety authority (efsa). in such a situation, there is no reason to invoke the comitology objection. moreover, the authorisation of products containing nk603 × t25 maize is fully in line with the recommendations of the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic and other competent authorities of the czech republic.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which seeks to repeal commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25. the gm maize nk603 × t25 is a crop made tolerant to both glyphosate and glufosinate-ammonium-based herbicides. it was produced through the crossing of two previously authorised gm maize varieties and developed by monsanto europe s.a. the commission’s draft implementing act approves the placing on the market of food, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from this maize while the cultivation remains prohibited in the eu. efsa delivered a positive opinion on the gmo stating that the maize is as safe as its non-gm comparator and non-gm conventional maize varieties with respect to potential effects on human and animal health and the environment in the context of its scope.
madam president, i consider the draft report submitted by our colleagues to be one of the best i have read here, even though i disagree with it on some points. finally, i decided to support the report as a whole because it is aimed at the main objective, which is the inadmissibility of unfair tax competition, which has simply been practised by some states, as the luxleaks case has shown. but with all due respect, it's not just that such agreements distort the business market, they're unequal, they actually go against all the values that europe stands for. i regret that some of the leading, important representatives of the european union today were also present. but the moment we go to the unification of direct taxes, to the consolidated tax base, in this case i am transmitting that i will be against.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report which has a very attractive title, but its content is essentially an attempt to introduce full harmonisation in the field of tax policy in the case of corporate taxation in the eu. there are, of course, elements in the report which i support, such as the need to combat tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, tax havens, or the lack of transparency and fraud in the tax area. however, i remain convinced that tax policy should remain the sole responsibility of the individual member states and that the eu is not prepared for any harmonisation of tax rates in this area due to differences between member states. i therefore could not support the report and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the ep, including through my vote, has supported the report i co-authored, which calls on the commission to present legislative and non-legislative measures to tackle unfair tax practices by countries and aggressive tax planning by companies. different tax rules, different regimes vis-à-vis third countries or specific unfair tax policies applied by some countries allow, in particular, large multinational companies to legally reduce their tax payments in the eu. they compensate smaller companies that don't have that kind of opportunity. it is estimated that each year european state budgets lose between eur 50 and 150 billion in corporate income taxes. the effectiveness of corporate tax collection in europe will increase as eu member states better coordinate their tax policies, remove unfair provisions in their legislation and act together towards third countries. today's vote is an important step towards achieving such changes.
in writing. ‒ as in the past, i have supported the report on the introduction of transparency, coordination and convergence in the area of corporate taxation. i think it is very important that multinational companies publicly report whether they pay taxes where they are economically active. i will no longer tolerate the fact that states steal from each other or, better said, allow their own citizens to be robbed. so i advocated for whistleblower protection, without which it would be very rare for the disclosure of dishonesty, violations, fraud, or illegal activities of large corporations. it is necessary that this relevant information be disclosed to either national or european authorities, who will then take appropriate action. i also voted for the demand for a strict definition and update of the list of tax havens, because it is precisely those that allow companies to harm the public interest in another state. i supported the mandatory notification of new tax measures, which should become part of the annual european semester process, and the introduction of sanctions in case member states refuse to cooperate. it is no longer possible to keep silent about unfair practices that put smes at a severe disadvantage and cost ordinary taxpayers billions of euros. since meps are directly accountable to their constituents, it is necessary to involve the european parliament as much as possible in the information and scrutiny process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative report which is the response of the econ committee to the luxleaks scandal. this report comes just before the commission is, in principle, expected to present on 27 january next, an anti-beps directive (action plan on base erosion and profit shifting) drawn up by the oecd in this field. the different recommendations of the report are built on the work of taxe committee. this report, together with the one from the taxe committee, constitutes a clear and strong message from the european parliament on the luxleaks scandal.
in writing. ‒ relations with china are one of the key areas of the eu external activities. i welcome this report marking the 40th anniversary of eu-china diplomatic relations. the report is well balanced and reflects realistically the current position of china in international relations. i find very important that the report mentions the need for a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and china and for an enhanced cooperation improving market access for companies, mainly smes.
in writing. i supported the report, which recognises the importance of cooperation with china in specific areas, but is not subversive and also raises the issue of human rights. china is a partner in areas such as counter-terrorism, illegal migration, transnational crime, nuclear non-proliferation, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction, energy security, global financial sector and market regulation and climate change, but this does not mean that the eu will not speak up in cases where civil rights defenders, lawyers, journalists, bloggers, academics and other civil society representatives are persecuted and their freedoms are restricted in china. the eu must not be deaf to the ubiquitous censorship that is to be further reinforced by the draft cybersecurity act.
in writing. i supported the resolution on eu-china relations. relations between china and the european union are becoming very close, both at the level of individual states (including the czech republic) and at the level of the union and its institutions. this year we commemorated the 40th anniversary of the establishment of relations between the people's republic of china and the european communities. but in moving closer to china, we must not forget taiwan, with which we have no diplomatic relations but which we share political and economic interests with and which is the only functioning democracy in the chinese context. i also supported the resolution because, in addition to its positive assessment of china and relations with china, it does not forget the many problematic issues such as human rights, the rule of law and intellectual property, or the situation in tibet and xinjiang.
in writing. i supported the report on eu-china relations because it not only recalls the anniversary celebrations of the establishment of diplomatic relations and the importance of our strategic trade partnership, but also reminds china of the importance of effectively respecting its international commitments in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the values of human rights, the rule of law and peace cannot be merely formally recognised by china, but must be reflected in its daily life. the widespread censorship of the internet, the religious repression of tibetans and uyghurs, and the marginalization of cultural rights of minorities in china cannot be easily ignored. the report's effort to recall china's role in international relations and as a permanent member of the un security council is also to be appreciated. instead of creating provocations in the south china sea and systematically blocking the un's work in the syrian conflict, china should make a greater contribution to peace and global security. i am glad that the report focuses on these questions. as a long-time advocate of ukraine, i also supported china's call to support us and eu initiatives aimed at ending violations of international law in the conflict in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china. indeed, this country is an important partner for some countries of the european union, but the relations are extremely unequal and more could be done to reinforce the link between the eu and china. in this respect the report addresses various different issues, such as the bilateral investment agreement currently being negotiated, the multiple meetings taking place between the two parties, respect for human rights, as well as china’s domestic and external policy.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit. humanitarian aid is a very important topic, so i'm glad we had the opportunity to discuss it. the report reveals the alarming fact that the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004 and exceeds 100 million in 2015; 250 million people are affected by the humanitarian crisis; and the number of forcibly displaced people is the highest since world war ii, when it reached almost 60 million. we must also be aware that children, women and other particularly vulnerable groups are the most affected by these consequences. i fully agree that poverty and vulnerability to crises are inextricably linked, which underlines the need to address the underlying causes of crises and to meet the long-term needs of the population affected by crises. i am also very aware that the consequences of humanitarian crises will be even more serious if their root causes are not addressed and humanitarian aid is not better integrated into development cooperation. however, as the report emphasises the importance of the private sector, including commercial objectives, which i personally do not think is a priority in humanitarian aid, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i supported the report, which also contains some contentious points on cultural and ethical issues, because i believe that a positive signal should be sent to help make the forthcoming world humanitarian summit a success, based on impartial assistance and general agreement on the application of the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and respect for obligations under international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ the current complex international situation brings an unprecedented number of humanitarian challenges that require clear responses and a truly global and functioning humanitarian aid system. as a social democrat, i believe in the need to strengthen the system of protection of the most vulnerable, based on solidarity and shared responsibility. we need humanitarian aid to be more effective, more effective and more focused on prevention. at the world humanitarian summit in istanbul, turkey, in may, the current system should be significantly overhauled and strengthened. the european union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid, demonstrating, among other things, the strength of its values and its commitment to a truly global responsibility. i hope that the world humanitarian summit will bring concrete answers and improve the current situation.
in writing. i spoke to the plenary on this report and appreciated the many important information and recommendations it contains. unfortunately, it also contains a number of problematic points. among other things, it addresses issues such as abortion and reproductive and sexual health and rights, mentioning for example the guarantee of access to 'abortion services in humanitarian crises', which i personally find highly controversial. the attempt by my group to remove these items failed, so i eventually abstained, as did most of my colleagues from the ppe, in the final vote. in the end, the report was narrowly passed.
in writing. the continued increase in the number of humanitarian disasters in the world cannot be underestimated and there is a need to achieve gradual coordination of member states' policies in addressing the causes and consequences of such crises. in particular, i welcome the report's call for a stronger private-public partnership in developing strategies to prevent emergencies and disasters and to repair potential damage. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the emphasis on the key role of ngos working in the field during humanitarian disasters and the need to consult them by national authorities can also be welcomed. however, i took the liberty of not agreeing to unconditional financial assistance and mandatory financial payments to governments, the private sector and regional organisations in addition to the funds for the planned global fund for humanitarian aid. i believe that the possibility for those entities to decide voluntarily to replenish the fund after a proper assessment of their own financial capabilities should not be denied. references to the question of abortion in the context of humanitarian crises also appear to be superfluous in the context of the report as a whole. in view of the above, i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed adoption of this report in view of the world humanitarian summit (whs), which will be held in istanbul in may 2016 with the aim to adapt the humanitarian system to an unprecedented number of emergencies and to make humanitarian action more efficient and effective. the report notes that 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises. it underlines that the whs outcome document should include a five-year roadmap for concrete political commitments undertaken, linking the post-2015 development agenda, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the 2015 united nations climate change conference (cop 21). it suggests that one of the summit’s objectives should be to reflect on the need for un reform towards a transparent and effective coordination system. the eu, as the world’s largest humanitarian aid donor, should show leadership in the whs and urge prevention, as well as a stronger commitment to a human-rights-based approach in humanitarian action.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that the world faces a number of humanitarian disasters in terms of number, scale and duration. the number of people in need has doubled since 2004. i support this report because i believe that the european union, as a global actor with humanitarian values, must be present in this area and actively involved in providing assistance. these values should also be loudly heard at the world humanitarian summit in istanbul. i also think it is important to link the discussion of humanitarian aid with development aid, since one without the other is meaningless in the long term.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the presented report as i believe that we have to make sure the eu base metal industry, and particularly the steel industry, has everything it needs in order to adapt to the current structural changes. that includes the possibility of using eu funds in order to raise energy efficiency through training of workers in the application of low-carbon technologies.
in writing. - i'm concerned about the harmonisation of subsidies to companies to reduce carbon dioxide. some states could be harmed by this.
in writing. ‒ we are now in a situation where we are seeing a loss of capacity and jobs in european steelmaking, which may lead to a loss of industrial know-how. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. i am also convinced that the european base metal industry must adapt to the new climate, economic and social situation and become a model of efficiency and effectiveness in the consumption of energy and raw materials. this should be done by fair regulatory measures at the border, so that we can know the carbon content of each product. the most important thing for me as a social democrat is that the european base metal industry should set an example in terms of the environment and minimize its impact on both workers and the people living in the surrounding area.
in writing. ‒ europe needs a strong industry if it wants to definitely exit the crisis and find again sustainable growth. this is why i voted in favour of this report. indeed, the general aim of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry is to identify the new conditions under which base metal industries, such as steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metals, can prosper in europe. i recognise the loss of competitiveness of several basic materials industries and the crisis that needs to be addressed to re-establish the eu’s economic potential. the report however calls for very specific and detailed changes on ets that will pre-empt the upcoming legislative discussions and is also very prescriptive. therefore i decided to vote against those parts of the report which were too prescriptive on ets or on boarder adjustment but i voted in favour of the report as such.
in writing. i decided to abstain in the vote on the motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary. on the one hand, i recognize that some of the criticisms of what is happening in hungary are justified, which does not allow me to vote against the motion for a resolution. on the other hand, i cannot help but notice that, especially in the area of access to migrants, some methods that were condemned in the case of hungarians (building fences, tightening asylum procedures, trying to deter migrants from coming to europe) are gradually being adopted in a number of countries critical of hungary. at the same time, i am against attempts to use the case of hungary to condemn countries like slovakia or the czech republic in a blanket way and to ignore the important nuances that distinguish them from the negative hungarian policy. i am afraid that if the proposed sanctions are applied to hungary, the risk of stigmatising all central european countries will increase further, which is not in line with the right to equality of all european union countries.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution by the ppe on the situation in hungary. this text is balanced and based on the fact that the commission is monitoring the situation in hungary but has not yet sought grounds for activating article 7 (1) of the eu treaty, which concerns a situation of breach of the rule of law and may lead to sanctions against the member state concerned. unfortunately, the ppe motion did not pass and instead, a resolution from the left-wing workshop was adopted, albeit by a slim majority. i could not support them because the wording goes too far. the commission notes that the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the hungarian authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. this position is contrary to the commission's statements and can only be understood as being purely politically motivated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the situation in hungary. indeed i believe that the commission should start immediately to act on the threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in this country. so far, the commission’s assessment of developments in hungary are far below the reality of the country and i regret that it focuses on marginal, technical aspects of the legislation, while ignoring the trends, patterns and combined effect of measures.
mr president, first of all, a special thanks to christian dan predo for the excellent work he has done on this report. unfortunately, we are living in a time of deterioration of the human rights situation on a global scale, and the european union and its member states must respond to this, because the protection of human rights is at the very heart of the european identity. we must maintain this identity and not compromise our principles in the face of various authoritarian regimes or terrorist organisations. our values, of which respect for human rights is a fundamental one, are now being challenged, and therefore new strategies and resources must be devised to promote them. human rights in the world need to be promoted through targeted strategies, these strategies need to be properly evaluated and then the consequences drawn and if necessary the strategies adjusted. it must be made clear at all times that human rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion, are a condition for the provision of development aid. this tougher approach in negotiations with third country authorities need not be an obstacle to concrete assistance to civil society representatives in these countries. i would like the european commission to emphasise above all the respect for the right of christians to worship, because they are the most persecuted group of people in the world. the thousands of christians who die and the millions who are injured every year deserve special attention in europe. asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman we've talked about here several times, is still sitting in prison awaiting a suspended death sentence for blasphemy. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. the fact that politicians are supposed to talk to each other does not mean that in this dialogue we should reduce the emphasis on the protection of human rights, including in relation to saudi arabia.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking you for having opened this subject and for this very interesting debate. it's a reflection of what's going on in society. we can't all agree on everything. we can't all see things the same way. and there's not always one truth, depending on your point of view. but first, i'd like to say that before we start criticizing anyone, let's admit that we've all made a mistake. we all break the rules in some way, one way or the other. only then can we rationally solve the refugee problem. today we are talking about the terrible situation of refugees, or asylum seekers, waiting at the external borders of the european union or inside it. yes, their situation is dire. but why is that? who are these people? and how do these people behave? do they always follow all the rules? i could go on and on about the experiences of the refugee camps, the borders, but i don't think it's worth it. these things have been said here many times. from my own experience, there are people everywhere who don't follow the rules, and the very idea of applying for asylum is not relevant to them. the legality and duration of their detention is therefore highly debatable and it is necessary to look at the matter from many angles. dear colleagues, i would like to conclude by asking you all to do one thing. let's not just be critical, but let's think about how to handle this situation, and please, let's handle it in a positive way, for the benefit of the people who need our help the most.
in writing.– although the dayton peace negotiations ended four years of war, the dayton agreement failed to create a framework for a lasting peace. bosnia has sadly not progressed to the level it should have 20 years later. rather than paving the way from a war-torn country to a unified and functional state, the constitution agreed at dayton laid out a post-war political system of power-sharing that reflects the ethnic divisions that had fuelled the war. as the sejdic-finci case demonstrated, the ethnic provisions in the constitution are improperly discriminatory and must be revised. if bosnia wants to become self-sustainable and avoid political paralysis, there needs to be a comprehensive constitutional reform. bosnia is europe and its future lies with the eu. we are willing to support bosnia throughout all stages of the process to reform. to truly make meaningful reforms though, all bosnians must move forward together.
ladies and gentlemen, the report before us says that illegal and smuggled weapons often end up in the hands of terrorists. the problem is, criminals, they always get their guns, and they get their illegal guns so the police can't track them. citizens should therefore have the right to defend themselves against criminals with weapons in their hands. the european commission is coming forward with a proposal to ban handguns altogether. the proposal, which is not before us yet, but which we will be discussing, calls for the complete prohibition of conventional automatic weapons, which resemble police automatic weapons. without a firearms license, you won't be able to carry a conventional sport airsoft gun. the european commission's proposals are simply aimed at disarming law-abiding citizens. and we shouldn't let that happen.
ladies and gentlemen, in its report the european parliament assesses the state of implementation of the council's common position establishing common rules for the control of exports of military technology and equipment. the authors also point to the dramatic change in the global security situation in the european union's eastern and southern neighbourhoods. there was a gentle breeze of pacifism above the authors' original text. a pacifism well and honestly meant, a pacifism that is not, however, suited to the pursuit of peace. thanks to the shadow rapporteur, mr kelam, and other colleagues, the report has managed to assess the security risks facing europe. the report thus proceeds in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations on the right to individual or collective self-defence and in its article 8 encourages the supply of arms for defence purposes. it is based, for example, on the real situation in ukraine, to which the article of the charter of the united nations on the right to self-defence fully applies. it also reflects the real policy of the european union. the european union this summer effectively lifted the arms embargo on ukraine, opening the way for ukraine to defend itself. in a situation where the minsk agreements are dead, it is the weapons that open the way to peace. no peace treaty with russia will guarantee peace. ukraine will have peace only if the aggressor is defeated. without weapons, wars are not won.
madam president, i personally support the idea of a clear concept of arms exports. a common eu arms export policy with clear rules is essential for us at this time. as an important instrument to combat terrorism and local conflicts that threaten european interests. but we need not only a framework for controlling arms exports from individual member states, but also a coherent policy on arms embargoes and, above all, more effective cooperation with our two agencies, europol and eurojust. but we must also start fighting the illegal arms trade within the european union first and foremost at home. in my view, the first step in this fight is to restrict the illegal possession of firearms. i want to point out another fact that hasn't been mentioned here. the european union's citizens, for example in the balkan countries, have a huge amount of weapons circulating and being traded after the wars that have taken place. the solution i see is a so-called gun amnesty that would allow these very illegal gun owners to return them unpunished. in the czech republic, this amnesty was a great success. that is why i think it should be promoted not only in the european union but also in neighbouring countries. by taking such meaningful steps, even if small, we can reduce the amount of illegal arms trade that often ends up in the hands of terrorists.
mr president, as chairman of your parliamentary group ‘friends of vietnam’, and also as standing rapporteur for the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, i am very glad that vietnam is once again is at the forefront of eu attention. while we are dealing with that partnership and cooperation agreement, i hope that it will be approved as soon as possible. we also have to stress that we have already negotiated a free trade agreement, and those negotiations were finalised in august. the treaty itself was signed two weeks ago by the commission president and the vietnamese prime minister. so it is good news. i think that it is also good news in the year where we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of eu-vietnam relations. i have to say, however, that this report of ms lochbihler contains some elements with which i am not entirely happy. in particular, paragraph 33 seems to me a bit unfair and unjust towards the vietnamese side, as it calls on vietnam to ensure that fees set by the vietnamese ministry of finances for the issue of documents are the same. it raises some doubts about the procedure. i do not think that this paragraph should be included in that report. i have serious concerns about that, and if that paragraph is there still tomorrow my position will probably be that i cannot support this report at all. however, i hope that we can find a solution for that.
mr president, in the year of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam, we will approve the partnership and cooperation agreement. there are many areas that are involved and we have already discussed them. but the most important thing for cooperation between countries is cooperation between people. we need to clear the way for that and give it a lot more room. as an important step in this direction, i therefore welcome the decision of the vietnamese side to liberalize the visa regime for citizens of the five major european countries. but we should not stop there. i believe that it is important for the development and intensification of further cooperation that this relaxation be extended soon to other, albeit smaller, member states of the european union. the czech republic is one of the countries with a long tradition of cooperation with vietnam. the large vietnamese minority here has recently been officially recognized as an ethnic minority. it is therefore natural that there are a number of joint projects. for example, cooperation in the field of education is seen as promising, as in the recent example of the project of the czech university of tomáš bati in zlín and the vietnamese university in ho chi minh city. i believe that these forms of cooperation can establish good, long-term partnerships, including by helping to get to know and understand each other's real lives in our countries.
mr. chairman, i am honored to take over from my colleague mrs. sehnal. i also had a few things in mind from the czech reality, she already said. i would therefore like to stress that we are not only celebrating 25 years of trade liberalisation, but that in 1996 the european union opened a representation in vietnam. i think that the liberalization of trade relations always has a fundamental effect, and that is why i support this draft agreement. article 33 i admit i'm still studying what my colleagues at the ecr are complaining about this agreement. on the other hand, i would like to say that a multiannual orientation programme is already in operation in the framework of relations between vietnam and the european union, and that it is producing results. we are focusing as the european union on supporting energy, infrastructure. this is also reflected in the trade between the european union and vietnam, although there has been a certain decrease in european union imports into vietnam. in any case, i support further deepening of relations between the european union and vietnam.
author.– mr president, the committee on legal affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, was in charge of directive 98/44 on the legal protection of biological inventions when it was adopted. the directive contains, inter alia, certain exclusions from patentability. article 4 of the directive excludes plant and animal varieties and essentially biological processes for the production of plants and animals from patentability provisions, reflected in the implementation regulation of the european patent convention. article 53b of the convention itself prohibits patents on plant varieties and on essentially biological processes for breeding. however, as a result of consecutive decisions by the european patent office (epo), the content of these exceptions has been eroded. parliament already adopted a resolution on this matter in 2012. unfortunately, it did not have much impact on the decisions of the patent office. in two precedent-setting decisions of march this year, the enlarged board of appeal of the office declared that, while processes for conventional breeding cannot be patented, plants and animals stemming from these processes are patentable. speaking on behalf of the committee responsible in this parliament for the application of eu law, i would like to emphasise the need to ensure that the epo demonstrates appropriate respect for eu law. the epo will play a central role in the implementation of the european patent with unitary effect. it is, therefore, worth bearing in mind that article 27c of the agreement on a unified patent court states that ‘the rights conferred by a patent shall not extend to […] the use of biological material for the purpose of breeding or discovering and developing other plant varieties’. i hope that this second attempt by this house to bring its concerns to the attention of the european patent office will help to convince the commission to raise the matter with the epo and will help to prevent, and possibly reverse, interpretations of law which erode carefully considered exceptions to patentability and patent protection.
mr president, i believe in the universality of fundamental human rights and that is why i am shocked by this case, which really concerns an irish citizen, a citizen of the european union. i would like to remind you that our delegation travels abroad very often. i think that as part of our travels we should send a special commission, for example, to ask the egyptian authorities to allow our representatives to visit this citizen, because i can't imagine that i will actually be in his shoes somewhere in the stinking dungeon of an egyptian prison waiting for my basic human right to a fair trial for so long. i would be very happy if we could send our delegations to these citizens, and this is not the first case, this ibrahim halawa case. earlier, we discussed the case of a baltic national who was also detained by russian authorities. i would therefore like to see our delegations go to those countries where human rights are being violated.
in writing. i would like to join those who are expressing grave concern about the fate of ibrahim halawa. i am not doing this because he is an irish citizen and therefore a citizen of the european union. not because i would dare say he's completely innocent. i do so because i consider the death sentence threatening ibrahim halaw to be fatal. which, in circumstances where innocence or less culpability can be proved in addition to that claimed by the prosecution, or where the political situation and therefore the political order change, cannot be remedied. i don't think any of us should presume to judge the degree of guilt in such situations. we're too far away, and the time of the alleged lawlessness was very tumultuous. but what we must always and in all circumstances uphold is the right to a fair trial. and a trial where nearly 500 people are judged guilty at once is not a fair trial. what is certain is that egypt and the entire mena region, the middle east and north africa, need stability, reconstruction and new paths of development. egypt in particular, more than two years after the military coup and a year and a half after the new presidential elections, should be looking for ways to engage in a wider national dialogue. this is very important at a time when egypt is facing terrorist attacks alongside us. it's time for a gesture of reconciliation.
mr president, i am really very proud of the incredible unity that is being heard from this parliament, and i thank you colleagues for that. i would like to begin by quoting what the imprisoned president nasheed said in february of this year. it is good and necessary to have a relaxing holiday, but it is important to understand what is happening here too. and i think that's exactly what our message is to not only the maldives, but to our own european citizens. i would also like to mention the specific freedoms that are currently suspended in the maldives. it's the freedom to do what's not forbidden, the protection of privacy, the right to strike is suspended, the freedom of assembly, the freedom of movement, both to enter and leave the islands, is suspended protection from unreasonable arrest and detention, confiscation of property. all these freedoms are being suspended and european citizens should be informed of this when they travel to these islands. otherwise, i join the call for sanctions and the suspension of trade agreements. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i also spoke yesterday about relations with china, i believe in the universality of the values of fundamental human rights, i said that here, and i do not think that the european union should give up the right to speak on these issues, which you also said here. i share my concerns about china, saudi arabia and other countries, and i do not think that the european union should remain silent, even though they are vital trading partners. the right to have our say, we certainly do.
mr president, i would like to believe that our discussion today and our resolution today will be seen as part of a discussion with a partner with whom i hope we share a common interest in cooperation. i would like to remind you of what the previous speakers have already said about the rule of law in malaysia, that development cooperation, trade agreements that the european union concludes, are conditional on respect for human rights. and so i would like to call on the european commission to press in this regard to take this seriously and to make development and trade cooperation with countries like malaysia conditional on a real improvement in the human rights situation in that country.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of union law and alleged maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive industry. unfortunately, the left has pushed for the formation of the committee of inquiry, and i fear that its real motivation is not to correct the mistakes and failures that led to dieselgate, but to attack the automotive industry and to shift the solution of the problem from the professional level to the political. the 'dieselgate' case is to be handled by the responsible bodies, such as the european commission and the administrative and judicial authorities of the member states, which have investigative and decision-making powers. i consider it necessary to speed up the introduction of a real-drive emissions test (rde) which will be in line with european legislation and will not allow for more significant deviations from the emission values set.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry. i consider the establishment of such a committee of inquiry premature. the european commission has not yet exhausted all the control tools at its disposal, and we should let it act for the time being, rather than investigating it for alleged failure. in this regard, the european parliament adopted on 27 october 2015 a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector, in which it called on the european commission to make fundamental changes in this area. i think that the commission should be asked how it is fulfilling parliament's tasks, but there is no need to set up a committee of inquiry. the automotive industry should be given room for appropriate response and self-regulation, in which it can act constructively and in an environment of legal certainty. our decision today to set up a committee of inquiry unfortunately undermines this legal certainty and is in fact contrary to the resolution adopted by the european parliament a month ago.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen affair. the mandate for the committee of inquiry will be much broader than that of the special committee and will try to determine how the european commission acted. with this inquiry the european parliament will seek to establish whether the institution failed to meet its obligations under article 14 of regulation 715/2007 on the responsibilities of the commission in monitoring the national test cycles used to measure emissions. the mandate of the parliamentary committee of inquiry will go even beyond the commission and will also allow parliament to carry out investigations into national certification authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. with this vote, the parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. with this vote, the parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
mr president, i was present yesterday at the debate on vietnam and i must confess that i was not fully aware of the details of the incriminating articles 33 to 35. i've studied them and i really don't see any reason why we shouldn't support the deal. i think that the requirements i have set were reasonable and i do not consider articles 33 to 35 of the framework agreement to be too far-fetched. i therefore supported the agreement and i also believe that the european union should continue to promote the growth of strategic relations with the countries of south-east asia. it's very important for our security, for the further development of trade relations.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of cooperation with vietnam, but the eu should not put in agreements calls that interfere with the internal politics of the states concerned. for example, to challenge vietnam to consider opening its nuclear power plant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part. indeed, the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement aims to establish a modern, broad-based and mutually beneficial partnership, based on shared interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. the eu is vietnam’s biggest export market and is the largest oda provider to vietnam and there will be an eu budget increase for this purpose of 30% to eur 400 million in 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with monetary union as a project that is not working, and i am particularly concerned about the point on the interinstitutional agreement (iia) on european economic governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which insists on further efforts to address the current shortcomings of the institutional framework of the euro area. it also insists on the implementation of the provisions of the six-pack and the two-pack, while stressing that existing treaties and instruments would allow some of the necessary additional steps to be taken towards completing the emu.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and the eu's policy on the matter. i do not wish to downplay the importance of this issue, but i am of course committed to the principles of protection of fundamental human rights, the rule of law and democracy. however, i am disturbed by the report's imbalance, where criticism is focused only on some of the already known chronic offenders, such as china, belarus or russia and moldova. i cannot accept the double-track policy as it has been applied by the eu for a long time and hypocritically, which is why i abstained in the final vote on the report.
in writing. i supported the report the ep adopts every year to draw attention to the problems of human rights violations in the world. the need for this year's report is all the more urgent as threats to human rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of assembly and association are on the rise in many parts of the world, including authoritarian regimes, and attacks on human rights defenders are increasing worldwide. i did not support the point condemning the use of surrogacy and abstained in this case. i would not dare to say that surrogacy as such is a violation of the human dignity of women, since their bodies and reproductive functions are used as commodities and that it is reproductive exploitation. i can imagine situations where surrogacy is justified and morally justifiable, and i do not think it is appropriate to take such a categorical stance on this complex issue.
in writing. - it is important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the report fundamentally denotes russia's aggression in ukraine. although it is said that human rights and pragmatism are two different lines that do not intersect, i have been convinced many times in my life that this statement is wrong. half-hearted approaches to human rights boomerang back, and the damage is often irreversible. for ten years, we have watched with little concern the decline of freedom of speech and freedom of thought in russia. during this time, the kremlin has controlled the media with highly sophisticated state propaganda based on half-truths, manipulation and lies. it misinforms not only the domestic audience but also the european and global audience with great success. the annexation of crimea, the russian aggression in eastern ukraine, the occupation of georgia, etc. the path to this aggressive foreign policy has been paved by the false manipulation of facts, the violation of freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of speech and media in contemporary russia. let's try to make the kremlin look like a partner that won't be intimidated. 'violation of human rights cannot be the internal affair of any state,' said russian humanist sergei kovalyev.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu policy on the matter. the report calls on the european union to take ‘measures appropriate for tackling serious violations of human rights committed in third countries, particularly those by authoritarian regimes, as well as those in the field of trade relations, energy and security’. together with my colleagues we are calling on the eu and its member states to make more effort in ensuring that human rights and democratic values are ‘genuinely’ at the centre of their relations with the rest of the world and in all union external action measures, particularly those at a high political level.
in writing. ‒ the in the joint resolution we voted on today, we were left with the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace accords. it recalls that, although the agreement ended the war, it froze rather than resolved the conflict between serbs, croats and bosniaks in the country, and that ethnic differences persist within the political system established by the agreement and the decision-making process has become more complicated. so we acknowledge the successes on the one hand, but also recognize the lingering problems that exist in the country. the resolution calls on all parties concerned to engage in dialogue in order to achieve reconciliation. we also support bosnia and herzegovina in its efforts to achieve reforms in the light of a european perspective. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i consider it very important that the european parliament recalls the importance of the dayton agreement, which ended the conflict in bosnia and herzegovina a conflict that left a hundred thousand dead and millions displaced. the peace agreement laid the foundation for the post-war settlement, the division of power and the question of reconciling an ethnically divided population. it is clear that considerable efforts will still be required in this respect, for example, the implementation of the results of the seidić-finci judgment is not yet visible. it is also necessary to call for respect for human and civil rights and guarantee them to all citizens, and to encourage greater involvement of young people in democratic intercultural dialogue and political life in general. despite all the current problems, the dayton agreement set a clear direction for the peaceful development of bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia and herzegovina must now make substantial progress in the process of political reform and seek to move closer to the european union, where its future is unquestionably.
in writing. i was happy to support the european parliament's resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. i personally welcome the fact that the resolution does more than simply recall the importance of the peace agreement which ended the bloodiest conflict in europe since the second world war 20 years ago. the dayton peace accords ended the war, but they did not resolve the conflict itself, and so it was more a preservation of the conflict. the introduction of an overly complex institutional framework has not brought the country the stability it needs. unfortunately, the ethnic and religious divisions of the country persist, with the potential for a resurgence and escalation of the conflict. bosnia and herzegovina has undoubtedly undergone significant change since the war and has managed to reach its current situation of aspiring to eu membership and of successfully coping with the problem of the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. the agenda is to implement constitutional and political reforms that will lead to the equal status and representation of the three constituent peoples of bosnia and herzegovina and their citizens. i am pleased that the resolution recalls and reaffirms the european union's commitment to bosnia and herzegovina's european perspective and its further rapprochement with the eu. a realistically defined european perspective for bosnia and herzegovina can also act as a significant motivating factor for reconciliation and overcoming internal divisions in the country.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution i call, together with my colleagues of the european parliament, on the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina to use the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an incentive to move forward with the necessary reforms, especially in view of bosnia and herzegovina’s forthcoming eu membership application. i note with regret that, 20 years after the end of the war, successive governments have failed to build a fully functioning, self-sustainable state. however, i recognise the positive transformation that bosnia and herzegovina has undergone in the past 20 years, from a war-torn country emerging from war to a state aspiring for membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i am convinced that especially at this particular time we have to make sure the rules on arms export are fully implemented and respected. on the other hand, i do not agree with the proposal to establish a european authority which would supervise the arms exports. there are national authorities which are doing this already now.
in writing. ‒ i am against the eu dealing with embargoes instead of national states.
in writing. in its report, the european parliament assesses the state of implementation of the council's common position establishing common rules on control of exports of military technology and equipment. the report, drawn up by mr kelam, the shadow rapporteur, was able to assess the security risks facing europe. the european union this summer lifted its arms embargo on ukraine, opening the way for ukraine to defend itself. in a situation where the minsk agreements are dead, it is the weapons that open the way to peace. no peace treaty with russia will guarantee peace. ukraine will have peace only if the aggressor is defeated. without weapons, wars are not won. another example is syria. the report refers to the decision of some member states to provide arms to iraqi kurds fighting in self-defence against da'esh. my country, the czech republic, has already delivered 500 tons of ammunition to erbil. defense against violence is the right of every free man, every free state. in wartime, you have to defend yourself with force. peace is an important commodity today. we have to keep asking how much does a kilogram of measurement cost in ukraine or syria. although the original draft report has been improved by a number of amendments, i am not satisfied with the content of the few articles in the original text that have not been removed from the report, nor with the overall wording of the report. i therefore voted against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the common position on arms export. the eu’s common position sets out the rules on monitoring the export of military technology and equipment. the member states undertook to comply with an eight-point code when selling arms. these relate, for example, to human rights in the country of final destination, the internal situation in the country of final destination, preserving regional peace, security and stability, and the potential effect on the economic and development prospects of the country of final destination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution as i am convinced that patent law should be duly implemented in the area of plant breeding, mainly in relation with the innovations in biotechnology.
in writing. the proposal is a response to the recent decision (g2/12 and g2/13) of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office, which allows the patenting of plant traits, even if these traits have been developed or obtained by means of essentially biological breeding methods. this decision is to be interpreted narrowly and thus opens up wide possibilities for the grant of patents covering plant varieties. this is in direct contradiction to the breeders' exemption explained in article 15 of the 1991 act of the international union for the protection of new varieties of plants (upov) and article 15 of regulation (ec) no 2100/94. i agree that if international obligations on intellectual property rights are to be met and if innovative competitiveness is to be increased within the european plant breeding sector, it is very important to balance eu legislation (in particular directive 98/44/ec). pursuant to rule 26 of the implementing regulation of the european patent office, directive 98/44/ec is to be used as a complementary means of interpretation for european patent applications and patents relating to biotechnological inventions. the clarification of directive 98/44/ec will have an immediate impact on the work of the european patent office. that is why i supported today's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the resolution on patents and plant breeders' rights. the resolution calls for the prudent application of plant breeding patent law, which should apply to biotechnological inventions but not to the results of ordinary biological processes. i believe that the resolution is a correct call for restricting the patenting of plant traits when those traits have been developed or acquired by means of essentially biological breeding methods. i consider such patenting to be an excessive form of intellectual property protection which goes against innovation in the sector. i trust the epo will reconsider its decision. the resolution is also fully in line with the position of the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic. the text of the amendment, as drawn up by the agri and juri committees, is entirely sufficient and i therefore did not support the additional amendments tabled by the gue/ngl and the greens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to urgently clarify the scope and interpretation of the 98/44/ec directive on patents, in order to ensure legal clarity regarding the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes, and to clarify that breeding with biological material falling under the scope of a patent is permitted. indeed, the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patents office (epo) on cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli) could lead to more patents being granted by the epo in respect of natural traits introduced into new varieties by means of essentially biological processes such as crossing and selection.
in writing. an ongoing wave of political and potentially ethnic violence has claimed 600 lives since the start of the year, with another 220,000 forced from their homes. the eu has allocated an additional eur 4.5 million to support these people. this resolution urges the government of burundi and the responsible authorities to put an immediate end to the violence and to stabilise the political and security situation. as a social democrat, i am glad that the resolution did not fail to recall the responsibility of the ruling powers to respect human and civil rights, which according to all available information are being grossly violated, there are persecutions, torture, even extrajudicial executions. the international community must take the situation in burundi seriously, as the escalation of the conflict and the resulting migration crisis could have huge negative impacts on the entire region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am deeply concerned by the grave security and political situation in burundi, the rapidly worsening humanitarian situation and the consequences that this may have for security and stability in the entire sub-region. by voting for this text i call for an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opponents, and for the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties, in strict accordance with international law and human rights. in this respect i urge all parties to establish the necessary conditions for rebuilding trust and fostering national unity, and call for the immediate resumption of an inclusive and transparent national dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i am sorry about the situation in the congo, but declarations from the european union will not solve anything.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply convinced of the importance of rapid international action to protect congo's virunga national park. this park bordering rwanda and uganda has many "neighbors": it is the oldest national park in africa, it is the most biologically diverse park in africa, but it is also the most threatened, especially by oil drilling plans and criminal activities of various armed groups associated with illegal logging, oil and poaching. these illegal activities finance not only armed rebel groups but also the official military forces. i believe it is absolutely necessary and in the best interest of all of us to prevent the destruction of this piece of land. its devastation would mean not only the loss of a unique and ecologically extremely important habitat and the loss of thousands of unique animal species, but also a social catastrophe, mass poverty in an already fractured state, an increase in extremism and regional instability. we have to stop all this.
in writing. - i am very pleased to have been able to support the european parliament resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. virunga national park is the most biologically diverse nature park in africa, and was inscribed on the unesco world heritage list in 1979. among other rare species, it is home to the endangered mountain gorilla. the resolution draws attention to the threat of irreversible damage to this national park as a result of oil exploration carried out by the british oil company soco international in violation of international conventions. in recent years, the park has become one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. in the last decade, over 140 park rangers have been killed on active duty. the park is the site of illegal exploitation of natural resources by armed groups linked to mining, who are also involved in large-scale poaching and use the proceeds to finance conflicts other than their own. i consider it necessary to draw attention to this threat and to call on the competent authorities to take measures to prevent illegal interference in the world's protected areas, which in turn leads to social unrest and even bloody conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the protection of virunga national park in the drc. the text stresses the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the vnp, which was designated by unesco as a world heritage site in 1979 and as a world heritage site in danger in 1994. it also deplores the fact that the vnp has become one of the most dangerous places in the world when it comes to wildlife conservation and that armed groups have been involved in illegal exploitation of the park’s natural resources through mining activities and charcoal production used both to sustain their military operations and for personal gain. the text also urges the drc government to disarm rebels and restore security in the park region and regrets, furthermore, that the repression of human rights activists and journalists in the drc has increased. it calls once more on the drc government to recognise and respect freedom of the press and media and to uphold the rule of law and human rights.
